THE MARKET.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Apr 23, 1900; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 6
-THE MARKET.
"	10.00—After opening buoyant American stocks
in London gave way considerably and closed heavy at about lowest. Strength was* shown in B. & O. 'common but the rest of the market was i to below parity. There was no change of note in the general list. Consols were heavy at 100J, and French rentes were lower on the day. No change was reported in the money position. Foreign houses did not expect to be large’ traders, but would probably be sellers at the opening, with possibly a little speculative buying later.
10.25.—Tlie steel stocks broke at the opening on the grave position disclosed by the Steel & Wire ■directors’ meeting and the anticipated cutting in ■ prices. Steel & Wire suffered less than the others, and on the first break there was quite a li.ttle covering of shorts. Less support was fortcoming in Steel Hoop and Federal Steel, and the various steel preferred stocks.
Bails held very well, considering, but there was a fair amount of realizing all round. B. & 0. common was firm and well bought, and the hard coal roads showed strength. A fresh attempt was made to bid up B. R. T. at the opening, but a good deal of stock came out, and it gave way rather quickly, Industrial stocks generally shared the weakness in Steel to a greater or less degree.
11.10.—Although little faith was placed in the consolidation rumors prevalent, Coalers continued strong and the buying was considered to be exceptionally good. Western Union which had hitherto been supported by the large short interest, was weak on a rumored reduction of the dividend to a 4;< basis. The steel stocks held fairly well at the lower levels although a good deal of long stock was reported to be coming out. Purchases for shorts in Steel & Wire were reported to have been considerable, both in the common and preferred stock, but it was noticeable that Chicago was trading to a very small extent. Commission houses were doing nothing.
Mo. Pae—E. & C. Randolph sold about 1,500. Wire pfd—C. I. Hudson sold. Mo. Pae—Butler Bros, bought. B. R. T—Housman and traders bought; Rolston & Bass and Newton sold. St. Paul ■—Housman bought: .T. R. Williston sold.
Mo. Pae—,T. n. Oliphant bought; Moore & Schley. Randolph (about: -1,000). Rmlell (2,000) sold. B. R. T—Wormser bought. Wire—Randolph (1,000), Sideaberg & Kraus sold; Moore & Schley bought. .T. Central—Strong. Sturgis & Co. bought. Am. Tobacco—Dominick & Dominick bought: Rath-borne sold 1.000. Fed. Steel—Manson bought: El-' Jingwood & Cunningham sold.
U. P. pfd.—Housman bought; Patteson sold. B. R. T—J. L. Gladwin bought; R. W. Newton sold. U. P.—Housman bought; Patteson sold. Fed. Steel —V. A. Blacque. P. H. Minis, L. R. Bacon bought; Beers & Owens, J. A. Blair, Thomas sold.
.	Wire—Niles Bros, bought: Price. McCormick
& Co. sold. Mo. Pacific—.T. R. Williston (1,500) Bold. B. R. T—Rolston & Bass bought; Pearl & Co. sold ROOO
Canada Southern.—Clark, Dodge & Co. and Housman bought. Reading 1st pfd.—Keech, Loew & Co. (1,000) and Housman bought. Wire—Scattering buying; Bell & Co., Edey & Sons and Lawson sold. Mo. Pae—Traders sold. Nor. Pae. 3s—Rol-Jton & Bass bought 150,000.
Sales of stocks first hour 134,512 shares.
.	12 m.—From the break in Missouri Pacific it
whs taken that the pool was unloading and traders attacked the general list. Steel stocks continued Ao sag and the market shorts seemed for the most part to have covered. There was weakness all round in the absence of this support. With the exception of a few speculative purchaser. forr-nm .houses sold after the first half hour. The bank .i£tatemeni^excited no comment with the exception *that the increase in loans was unexpected and did mot give the'impression that much long stock had come to market during the week.
12.30.—The borrowing demand showed a verv much larger call for stocks. Sugar was in demand at 24 and most of (be business was done at 2 to 21^ in that stock. Norfolk preferred continued to loan flat, ami Western Union was in demand at that rate. The rest of the account continued at 24 to ’"^h |l- |:ilter figure paid on most: of the industrials.. The break in American Tobacco was ascribed to the more aggressive tactics of the retail traders in the commodity, and also io sympathetic selling due to the weakness in the other industrials.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.