FEATURES OF THE MARKET. Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 11, 1901;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 8a_
Features of the market.
The strength in the early trading, did net cn-xaurage any outside following and later it looked Jas if Louisville, St. Paul and Atchison and Manhnt-■ tian had been advanced to help liquidation of stock • elsewhere. There was continued-pressure from the J^Vest, rather giving the idea that Chicago operators t'rhad some inkling of the bad Government crop reSport so far as corn was concerned. It was notice-triable that such stocks as Missouri Pacific and Pork 1-Island which are supposed to be closely held and tin which the floating supply at any rate-lias teen .itaken off the market, suffered severely on any at-'• '-tempt to realize. The locking up of active stocks *on margin during the last twelve months lias lie-/'gun to be a source of considerable disquiet.
:	The news of the day scarcely accounted for the
[general weakness and the decline naturally brought ‘out rumors of renewed differences among the irn
. fportant interests of the Street. Money was easily .. ^obtainable at 5<e aud under, but a rather unexpected ■shipment- of gold caused renewed anxiety. The 'official announcement that Atchison had withdrawn its cut in rates hqd curiously little effect and the increase in the Big Four dividend passed almost without comment. Commission houses are carrying very small lines of stock, but it is considered that there is 'a very large volume in the hands of banks and trust companies and the expected de-jmand for money for moving the crops causes a fear I'that some of tins may be thrown on the market.
, The Steel stocks had excellent support and jus-itifled inside opinions lately expressed in regard to -the preferred stock.
London traded in about. 40,000 shares, foreign .'houses selling in the later trading as much as they ' bought at the opening.
London was the largest buyer of Atchison common and there was a little covering of shorts by 'brokers trading for the West.
There is excellent reason to believe that the Cambria Steel Co. has passed into hands very friendly to the Pennsylvania interest.
The action of St. Paul again raised the question whether a wish to acquire that stock cheap had not something to do with the general weak-‘r.ess.	.
Insiders in Missouri Pacific said the corn damage ill Kansas was a misfort line, but. they did not think it justified any radical change in the plans of the company.
Commission house mostly reduced commitments for their customers and gave no support, nut The covering of traders' shorts helped the rally in the lust half hour. .
It was rammed all day that interests which have hitherto been bullish were reducing lines of stock under a belief that there would be no material rise this nmntli.
Lack of scaie buying orders was evident in many stocks during the decline. Specialists had lew orders to buy ami sales in some active stocks showed wide llticluations.
Tlie decline in llock Island was a rather sinister feature and was taken by some of the room experts to indicate considerable pressure oil the Chicago controlling interest.
There was good buying of Manhattan on what was said to be a bull tin from Gould sources, but the best information di not indicate any important change in the road's position.
The advance in the Big Four dividend to 2'. semiannually was made at an unfortunate time tor the bulls of that stock- and contrary to all precedent did not excite any interest.
Most of the pressure in the Granger stocks came from the West, where a pessimistic view of The corn crop prospects prevailed. Chicago was also a seller of the Pacific stocks.
The gold shipment was a special order not justified by exchange but it had an influence on the .market and apparently increased the disposition of commission houses to advise sales.
It was reported in Erie that action on the dividend on the first preferred would be taken soon. Humors in regard to the amount were eonilieting with the tendency rather in favor of a t’.tf rate.
Traders last night were inclined to think the market would rally alter its quick drop, but that stocks would be a sale on the rally. They thought bearish views were making headway in the. country.	• '
The Government crop, report showing winter wheat 88.3, spring wheat 95.ll. and corn 81.3, was a distinct relief alter the weak market. It lias to be remembered, however, that 'i\ good deal ot the corn damage in Kansas has occurred since duly I.
The street was somewhat puzzled that I nion Pacific should have laid the largest transactions aud nearly as large a decline as any other stock when it is not in the area,of serious crop damage. It raised a question as to ^vhat the true reasou for decline in the market might be.
There was only a moderate demand for stocks in flic loan crowd and the prevailing rate was -1A to with no special scarcity anywhere. There is very little of the industrial or traction stocks loaning and even United States Steel seem to be arranged for outside the loan crowd.
There wore persistent rumors in the street of renewed friction between big interests. These were probably due to the general weakness of the market as the news of the day was hardly sutli-cient to account for the heavy decline and there was consequently a good deal of guessing as to The causes .
There is every reason to believe that the next dividend on Baltimore & Ohio common will be at 4 lie rate of -Iff ami certainly no higher. The earn-iings for the year will show something over lift for 'the common'stock, but it is the policy of tlm eon-trolling interest to write off substantially for improvements.
The Louisville statement shows that the earn-lings have been al the rate of 8.V against Ilf.' last war. Although the best authorities available had 'discouraged the idea of any extra dividend the realizing before and after the declaration showed a considerable weak bull account had been built up on the rumors of an extra distribution.
The close, although above lowest was depressed in spite of the fact that the early selling of Louisville had discounted the disappointment of the operators who laid been hanking on an extrn dividend. Monev was easy enough but the market geiiertillv showed signs of nervousness not account ml‘for by any of the news of the day.
The dm-lin-' in People's Gas was another instance of a stock tightly held giving way on comparatively small sales when the inside support was •withdrawn. Chicago opinion is generally favorable. but there is no short interest in the market and unless the insiders protect stock there is a decline in the abnoncp of ilit1 very acceptable support given bv a healthy short interest.	...
Boom gossip wan tk^* tbe Union Pacific, dividend was likvlvlo be nt the rate of We have good authority for saying that the mutter lias not been even informally discussed mid u decision in Hie matter can hardly be approximated in less than a month. There were thought to be manipulating orders in Manhattan. The advance was considered responsible for part of the strength
iu other traction stocks. The selling of Brooklyn by Van Emburgh & Atterbury attracted attention. ■ The1 speculative bond issues, particularly Union Pacific convertible 4’s, Wabash dqb.-B, and the lower priced-issy.es of the'Gould roads lost ground in sympathy with the weakness in the stock market. The realizing seemed to be of a protective character in view of possible scarcity of money in tae early tall. The tone all round was heavy, although the changes in • the gilt-edged railroad bonds and Government issues were trifling. Practically all the second class issues were fractionally lower. Total sales $3,09(5,000.
Missouri Pacific is a good example of the far-reaching effects of the recent Northern Pacific corner. Whatever its merits or demerits may be, outsiders will not sell it short and although it lias fallen some 20 points, it is doubtful if there are a thousand shares open on the short side of the market. Insiders are giving support, but in a conservative way and all -the stock that comes out is long stock. It is said on good authority that the drought has hit the road hard and that it will be tire chief sufferer from the damage to the corn crop.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.