FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 10, 1901;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
Transactions amounted to over 3,000,000 shares .Jand-Tthe reported sales were probably much beloi?-®Jthe actual volume of business. The list of declines
Money
aers. poured in during
Consolidated Gas had the distinction of gain-
behind the market during the dax
greatest thev had over
low quotations.
ng done in industrials.
nv general
ant factor m the account.
rare under wav around noon.
supporting orders were put in when tin
.be break was seen.
i :i few minutes.
seen.
stocks.
Insiders bought General Electric
almost impossible.
houses sold stock
transactions probablv exceeded 2.0011,000 shares.
Commission
treatment from their
received verv considerate
London was weak, although
considerable number of stocks lost 10 points or more and Josses.of from 2 to 5 points were itlie rule.-- Northern Pacific stands out with a. gain of
Clncago was
^er,,is.practically over.
^arbitrage transactions were small.	_
a'heavy seller. Brokers threw over their custoin-
money panic. It will be known all over the country this morning that shorts in Northern Pacific will.be allowed to settle on very reasonable terms, and with the comparatively low prices for many
good stocks, there will probably come a strong re-
■ Abound in prices.
Bond brokers say that the panic in stocks will
help the investment demand in bonds.
A number of houses with Western wires paid
Butler Bros, bought 60,000 shares of Missouri
Pacific and about 100,000 shares all told of various
■ Very few commission lionses were able io get
much stock at the low prices.
where possible, but in most cases shut down en-
Some London stock was sold at the low
holding oiT'nndoubtedly saved London a gr<*at deal
of the cheap stock.
lent effect in restoring confidence.-
on good authority that some of the strongest interests in the West had not parted with any of their stock. The Rock Island pool was understood to have retained its controlling interest and even bought stock on the break.
Bonds suffered to some extent in sympathy witli the break in the stock market, although-the net declines were less serious than might have been expected. Union Pacific convertible 4’s were the most active, and rallied from their low point. Wabash deb. B suffered a fall of 4 points, and Erie general lien declined 3. Government issues were unchanged and gilt-edged railroad bonds showed very fair strength. " Total sales §S,"79,000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.