FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 18, 1901;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 8..	.	.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
'•>. The opening transactions showed a very moderate :recession on the lower London prices, but ■this was.soon recovered and there was an advance throughout the list which was maintained practically without a break tip to the close. Crop conditions and'the steel strike were relegated to the back ground and the appointment of a board l'oy Northern Pacific indicating entire harmony among tiie big interests was the key-note of the day’s trading.	'	•
Although the names of the new directors were not given out until near the close there was buying of a specially good character to indicate that the prophecies had substantial foundation in fact. The 'declaration of the long promised dividend on Erie ' first, although it was only at the rate of 3^ per annum had an excellent effect, especially as the buying was what the room considered good. The reports of rain from the corn belt were good and promised to be better. The 'street view of the ' strikes in steel and anthracite was by no means so /alarming as the sensational part of the newspaper j-press suggested and the general belief was that I both in anthracite and steel the strike leaders ’would accept any moderate concession to save ■their face.
Money opened at and was obtainable freely 'fli that rate and under all day. Exchange was 'weak and the market tone generally more confident l.than.for some time past. The street derived con-vsiderable satisfaction from the evidence of active ’^participation of the large interests in the general advance.
London sold at least 00,000• shares, buying a few stocks in the late trading.
There was good buying in the Traction stocks on the summer earnings, which were reported • large.	>
', The volume of commission house buying of Steel common when it crossed 40 was quite a noticeable feature.
The sale of 200 Northern Pacific at 11S was the first transaction in the stock since June 12th, when business was done at 165.
Kulm Loeb & Co. loaned $1,000,000 at 3Jtf at the opening, giving an easy tone to money; which was reflected in the strength of the market.
Amalgamated Copper advanced on Boston buying and the belief that the Heating bull account in the street had been substantially reduced.
; Thi' scarcity of St. Paul on the advance was a noticeable feature. In one case there was a rise of 11 points on something like 400 shares of stock.
Atchison common was heavily bought in the last hour and by its scarcity in the loan crowd and in other ways gave evidence of having been heavily oversold.
Tiie buying of Steel was based on the belief that the strike would be settled on a basis of concession to the union permitting the organization of non-union mills.
The Hill following is still very bullish on Elies and it was noticeable that contrary to the usual rule, Erie first advanced sifter the declaration of the dividend.
Missouri Pacific was strong and the advance was connected by room operators with tin? expiration of rights on Thursday. The buying was said to be for the inside.	.
Special strength was shown in Atchisons and St. Paul, with rather more scattering commission house buying, on the belief that the market had been oversold on the crop damage.
Houses which have been bearish for some time became quite bullish, yesterday on Hock Island. There were rumors of some change in the control, but we were not able to verify them.
Insiders bought Missouri Pacific and expressed renewd confidence in a material rise in that stock l'v the middle of September. Missouri Pacific,ciop advices were declared to be very satisfactory.
Brokers who are asked to recommend purchases yesterday quite generally agreed in naming St. Paul, Atchison ipreferred and Louisville as combining value with speculative opportunity more than most ether stocks.
The advance in Bock Island on the day was remarkable. The gain of S points was taken to indicate that the Moore Bros, were still in control, and that the recent decline had encouraged a vulnerable short interest.
There was good buying of North American on the idea that it was to form part of combinations projected, especially its the wide scope of its charter make it available for other uses than those to which it is at present [mt.
Sugar advanced on buying through n. Content. J. 31. Amory and A. A. Housman & Co., who took all the stock offering and bid up. It was said that Standard Oil interests had taken the long side and reports from trade sources were bullish.
' There has been some very fair buying of Nor' folk common recently and it is not unnaturally considered that with so secure a dividend yielding better than ■i'f at the present price and earnings at the rate of Opi on the stock it is an attractive proposition.
' The advance in Southern Pacific was almost wholly due to the phenomenal increase in earnings shown by that company. It looks as though Sou thorn Pacific would show approximately 5/ earned on the stock, and while this doos not mean div.i demls paid, it means value in earning capacity.
We understand that Western Union is likely to be more active than it has been in tlm past. Stock has been accumulated recently and it is regarded •as worth more than many stocks which are selling ihiglier. As long as present plans hold good, Western Union will be found a purchase on weak spots. ' In the loan crowd Boek Island was exceedingly scarce, and could only be obtained flat. Louisville and Erie firsts were somewhat in demand at ( 3# and Atchison common was by no means plentiful at that figure. Batecs generally ruled at 3 to 31$, with most of the business done at the former , figure.
' Erie [/referred rose four points, a move ac-■counted for during the afternoon by the announce-Intent that the company had declared 11$ on the stock, intended apparently to put the stock on a 3$ dividend basis. This may be considered the first result of the Mill-Morgan plans for the development of Erie.
Apart from the declaration of dividends on Eriedlrsts the hard coal stocks were strong on the ,-belief that the strike would have an early collapse. ' It is not thought likely that, the miners will re-j main idle because of a quarrel which does not eon-[corn th’em, and the stationary firemen are not likely to get much sympathy from their own class.
The move in Union Pacific revived the talk' tlmt Union Pacific people* have secured control of St. Paul. There was no confirmation although it is not unlikely that the relations of St. Patil to Union Pacific and Northern Pacific may, become closer ns time goes on. The. alliance is not likely to be one of purchase but one of mutual interest. Humors that it had been decided to make the Union Pacific dividend 2.1%' were unauthorized.
. The announcement of the naw Northern Pit-■ clfic board accounted for the strength in the rail
road stocks.-in the late trading. ; The market view was that all the important interests were effectively represented though perhaps more importance was given to the appointment of Mr. Ilea than conditions justified. There is no reason to believe that he represents Pennsylvania interests which are not .concerned in the matter.-
The trading in bonds showed considerably more, activity and the speculative issues advanced substantially in sympathy with the better feeling in the stock market. Uniou Pacific convertible'4’s gained 3 points on the public announcement of the settlement of-the Northern Pacific difficulty and Wabash debenture B rallied 2 points on what-was consider-’ ed inside .buying. There was good buying in the new Burlington 4’s and a very fair demand for the good second class issues. The gilt-edged bonds and Government issues were firm. Total sales $3,104,000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.