FEATURES OF THE MARKET. Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 9, 1901; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 8
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
AU the new* at the opening of the market was "**ri*b, but the heavy realiiiug on the day wa» rather a surprise to the Street. The most import* ant item of new* over the holiday* *«« the cutting or rate*, by Atchison. The crop new* wa* conflicting, hut upon the whole bad, at least so far a* corn was concerned. The monev <-nn<iiti,»nK were uncertain and some shifting of loan* during the day was responsible for liquidation. The heavy Chicago seuing was a feature, especially in the early trading and from the nature of the selling generally it looked as if a good deal of stock had come out of the hands of banka and trust companies. The Granger stocks were the most heavily affected. St. Paul in particular recording a serious decline of nearly ten points. The Pacific stocks were of course hurt by the rate situation, w here it was conjectured that the movement to bring Chicago Great Western and other disturbing interests Into line with the big roads might be made a rather heavy expense to bulls on the Pacific stocks. The heavy Western realizing in United States Steel more than offset the announcement that the dividends were to be paid quarterly and the rather more hopeful news on the labor situation. There was considerable evidence in the borrowing demand and elsewhere that there was a more active and aggressive bear party in the market than for a cou*ider-ale time in the past. Stiff money rates caused realizing in the earlier part of the day. but was plentiful enough before the close. Londou took a considerable part in the early selliug, but bought a little stock on the decline.
Rock Island rallied on supporting orders said to be for the Chicago controlling interest.
Mr. Morgan was quoted as talking in quite a hopeful way in regard to the general situation.
The new SealwKird 5* wen- dealt in on tin- curb for the first time and sold at K>1 i and interest.
ltrok, v— nsnallv o|>er.iting for the Stamlar-l Oil following Wen- lieavy seller-, of St. Paul during the day.
Steel was sold on reports that negotiations for settlement of th • strike had not made satisfactory progres.-..
The railing of loans by one of the large banks attract.-,! attention a- p„—ibly indicating a policy of importance.	’
The Meore Brothers we-e IsTirved to have been the heaviest sellers all round, possibly to the extent ct uu.oiHi shares.
There was good support in 1*. R. T. on tile big summer < .irning-. hilt the bull account in the other traction- wa- very weak.
Sotiih. in l*a< in,- will make a strong effort to defe.il the i — ei.: Si.hiKUHlil invrvaM- in the Central Pacitn :is-»i—n.vtii in Nevada.
Hi.-1 e«: opinion m I.oai-viile & Nashville was that lli,-i,- would l.< no extra dividend declared and ili<- -:o< I, ->>.,i olf in .on—,-quell,e.
1'1 n..i~ C.-niial lo-t ground very considerably. Tin- de. lire -. -i ”-d ba-rd princ-pally on the weak buli .>••■ ..mt an,' pressure from traders.
Th " : <>iin .1,-,-liue in General Electric was due to a v,n -mail bhxk of -twk thrown upon a uar-low m.uk<-.. .ml li.'.d no other significance.
’lie- -Iia-p In,-al. in Mis-ouri Pacific canned rumor- <>: a lehii in tin- r-otiiuw,-stern consolidation mg- liaison- and a eon-,quent decline m all the Gould -Io- l.s.
Th- -tlength ill the win- of corn which continued pi.n tn-allv all day w.i- con-id,-red proof of the aicut.iey of tie- r. poll- of coptinued injury to Kar..-..-< <>i n by drought.
A good many -top orders were url, overed on the de, bn. all lonml the room and traders took advantage of thi> to sell the market down wher-• t-ve.- th,- bull account looked weak.
The fact that St. l'.inl declined as much as any other -t,>,'». although it wa- not in the area of crop damag-*. entourage! the report that a promi Bent inter,—r w-tinieil St. I’.iul down.
The ' Utting of rales by Atchi-on was believed to be a movem.-nt to force Chicago Great Western into the pool. It wa- said the latter was getting about HI’, of the bii.-iiiess with 2’.' of the facilities.
Motley, corn damage. Atchison rates, and the Steel -trike were the causes of the decline. The heaviest selling ;ip|»-.ire,l to come from Chicago, and tlier,- was talk of a Gat,-s bear interest in the market.
Rock Island had a sharp decline, and-it was S.lid that the controlling interest m Chicago had been a li-av v -,-ller all round the room, especially in St. l’anl and the Steel stocks, to protet their holdings.
Three house- each having Western connections were estimated Io have sold more than 150.IUW ahares during the day. The sales included a large amount of Atehi-on. Union Pacific. Southern Pacific. and St. Paul.
Mthou-’h a conservative estimate of the ear:, ings in Louisville A Nashville makes them better than W'.'. it is not exp-cb-d in well-informed quarters that any increa-e in the dividend or extra declaration will bo made.
London sold -onie 40.0(10 shares in the early-trading but bought about 20.0IM) later, on the break. Foreign houses reported sentiment on the other side more bullish than lien- and said that London was at a loss to account for the heavy decline.
It was -aid that the insiders who have been responsible for the advance in Missouri Pacific tic-past nine months took a good deal of the stock offering on Monday’s decline. The rights lost ground, hut sold proportionately rather higher than the •lock.	,
People’s Gas lost ground on the day but only tn a moderate extent and seemed to receive very fair support from what are considered inside sources. Hulls on it chum .that its fsisition m-vtr was stronger and that flic outlook for its relations with the nmnicijKility is excellent.
Sugar -old off considerably in sympathy with the rest of the market, lint lr.nl,- authorities ,u,i not see anvthing more than the uneasiness cans,-,: bv the lieiivv decline elsewhere to account for the fall. They reisirt the demand for the comua’a.’s products as being ratlier above the average for the itime of year and think it likely to improve.
Money was rather erratic. It opened at S',', but ease.! off to ii> on loans of about i.OOb.OOl) by tieRank of Conimercc. The rate hardened again, but finally eased off when the Morton Trust Company qppeaTdl in the market as heavy lenders. A few belated loans were even made as low as "i.
Chicago Great Western showed very fair strength all day on the belief that the Atchison cut in rates had demonstrated the necessity for conciliating it liefore any stable basis could be arrived at. It was thought that its acquisition by uiome stronger interest would be absolutely necessary to make recent consolidation deals effective.
There was a markedly I letter demand for stocks in the loan crowd nnd such inferences as could be drawn from the borrowing demand |iointed to a considerably larger short interest. Rates on rail-' road stock- were generally .”> to <>< with no h;«m i;,l ouareity in any department. Tim Tractions ,md industrials were hardly mentioned but paid rather almve th,- pievailing rate for rails where loaning.
Tran-.u-tions in the bond market gave in a lesser degree indications of the same class of realizing as prevailed in tie* stock list. Among the speculative issues, Union Pacific convertible 4*. Wabash debenture B and all the new collateral
trust bond* lost ground. The standard second-class issue* were fairly steady and the gilt-edged railroad bonds and Government securities comparatively flrm. Total sale* f2,9C4,<W0.
One of the large operator* who has been almost alone in being bearish lately said last night: “The essential feature to-day has been that stock* have come out. Hitherto, when price* were lowered, it was not always easy to get stock*. To-day there has been no trouble in getting them and at the lowest prices. This mean* that people are disturbed and are ready to sell. The decline will last as long as they keep on selling. When they stop there will come a good rally, but I do not think there is mnchjikelibood of any large rise this summer. ~
It is reported on excellent authority that London operators are heavily long of Southern Pacific and Southern Railway common and preferred. The bullish sentiment in the latter i* one of the results of Mr. Morgan’s recent trip to Europe. The bolding* of London in American stocks have been materially altered in the last twelve month*. European holders have sold practically all their M. K. & T. common and their holdings in Ontario & West era are very tuixi smaller than they have ever been m-the history of the road. There is a considerable long account, however, on the other side of Louisville. Union Pacific and Atchison common and none of the comparatively recent purchases of United State* common nnd preferred ha* been sold.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.