FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 9, 1901;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8f	.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
Transactions amounted to about 2,300,000 ^shares and there'were very heavy losses through-•Xiut the list with the exception of Northern Pacific Xand three or four other stocks. The Northern Pa-iicific corner proved to be of the most serious character hecaues of.the necessities in the case. Apprehensions as to the outcome unsettled confidence and ^resulted in general selling of stocks by frightened
■	holders. Many stocks were sold by those who need--ed money to make good losses in Northern Pacific. --Call money ran up to 20$ with higher rates reported ^in some cases. Most of the day’s loans were at S$.
-	The situation hinges on Northern Pacific.
London sold stock from the curb but arbitrage ^.transactions were impossible.
Northern Pacific loaned at 40 to 50$ for use before the loan market closed.
’ The Majestic, which arrived last night, brought quite an amount of Northern Pacific.
.Insiders bought Amalgamated Copper on a . scale and were confident of better prices.
Community of ownership in the Northwest
-	seems to be a rather uncertain quantity.
The ticker did not record the last price of Wednesday's trading until 3.25.
The action of Burlington was considered evi-■-dence tlmt the deal was not imperilled thus far.
In a first-class broker's office GG premium was bid for 1,000 shares—i. e., $(‘>0,000 for the use over ' night.	-
The action of Missouri Pacific showed that the Gould end of the Harriman syndicate was confident.
200 was paid for 400 Northern Pacific in a private* transaction to close a short account after hours.
>1. J. Manning sold 1.000 Northern Pacific at ISO and bought it back at IGO before he had time to record the sale.
The market showed up to the close that tin* fight was si ill on? not only in Northern Pacific, but all through the'list.
. Two great inieresis grappled. Each adopted tactics intended Io make the other let go of the ■vital spot. Down went the market.
Tt is now possible that tlm Hill-Morgan interesr now wishes that the voting trust in Northern Pacific bad not been tenrirated.
There are two classes of stocks to buy: Those which may be found cheap on merits and those which for special reasons are to be put up.
The buying ef roads for control bears some analogy to the building to occupy territory that was so marked a feature twenty years ago.
It is said that 1he aggregate purchases in Northern Pacific amounted to 138,000 shares more than Hie stock in existence.
’I'he high loaning rate of Northern Pacific— touching 25$ premium for use—showed that no settlement between opposing interests had been reached up to the clo-e.
Northern Pacific loaned up to 25$, but with this exception no scarcity of stock was noticeable. Hails generally loaned at 5 to 6$. No industrials
-	or tractions were mentioned.	■'
('all money eased oil in the early afternoon to ■' (1$, after loaning up to 10$. At 3 o'clock, however, .there was a renewed .demand. Ony responsible —house i eporte’d receiving 25^ for ?3<)7(ll 10,0(10.
, Northern Pacific loaned up to 50. premium af-
■	;ter the loan crowd proper had broken up. $25,000 was paid for the use of 500 shares over night. The last. (Street) rate quoted was 35$.
■	U!T. •pld U'Uf.-lhe Harriman .interest, did / ’not acqnire’coiitrol of Northern Pacific with any
inrention of changing the present management, but only io demonstrate power to enforce harmony in that section.	....
.It is possible that the existing ownerships ii: '‘Union Pacific and Northern Pacific may result in -,i:i agreement which will,Sake real community of interest in the Northnest. This is ihe most hopeful feature in the 'sitffation.
i i .	a'4'’
Arbitrage houses were comparatively happy. They arranged to deliver foreign stock in London r^ynd borrowed lu re liar against stock on the water, .ut.arbitrage dealings fell dead, .lubbers were _ .uThid to sell anything.
A very shrewd broker of largo experience said! ‘■'There is consolaiion 1o be derived from the fact that the break started early. It. gave brokers time io sell stock against commitments of out-oftown customers and there is no doubt many did so.’’
Chicago was a heavy seller all round the room all day. Jtock Island suffered relatively less than the others, and none of the large recent purchases for control were believed to have come out. The selling in this stock was rnainly scattering commission house liquidation.
Missouri Pacific broke badly in sympathy with the rest of the market and it was feared that the serious differences among big interests would prevent the projected consolidations in the Southwest. Nene of the stock sold, however, came from insiders, who claimed that they were in a better position than the bulls of the Granger stocks.
An old trader in Sugar said: “This stock is -getting quite a stable proposition. It is quite a reversal of old conditions to see stable railroad stocks rising and falling twenty io forty points, and Sugar only losing six points in a semi-panic. Insiders are taking stock and it is'diflicult to see where they can take much harm when the railroad magnates quit fighting.”
The rally in United States Steel preferred was a bright spot on a gloomy day. The common was weak, but insiders claimed that the uncertainty in the railroad position would divert buying to United States Steel issues. There was inside buying on Hie rally. It is understood that in view of the large amount with the banks and trust companies the insiders will protect the preferred completely and the common to some extent.
In the bond market the break in stocks severely affected Union Pacific convertible l‘s, ■ which sold down S points and all the speculative issues, like Mexican Central income ’bonds and Wabash debenture B lost from 2 to 3 points. The second class railroad bonds were generally a point or more lower, but gilt-edged bonds maintained their ground very well. Government issues were unchanged. Total sales $4,(lG2/)0().
A prominent commission house said: “We are of course calling up margins, like everybody else. . but wo shall gel them beyond all question. Oper-* filters all over the eonniry have made money, and the conditions are radically dilferent from those prevailing in 1 ho December break of ISO!). Every-imdy has made- money on the big- rise, and in his business besides, and can afford to put up for a .bigger reaction than wo see any reason to expect." ' London sold 50,000 shares on Ihe day mostly Steel stocks, B. & O.. Southern Bail way. „Atehi-son. St. Paul. and Beading. There were no purchases for foreign Iieeonnt. There was a difference of-over.30 points between the New York and London price for Northern Pacific, but arbitrage was impossible as London operators declined to ; take-orders. Arbitrage houses complained tlm/. ’ th« Northern l'ndlli: troublo had pvaeticaliy de,>	their market.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.