FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 12, 1901;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8	----..	.	. .....................   ..	.	..... ,	_
S.FEAT.URE^OF THE 'MARKET.' ’j 'dicaled^ha't'-lhere'^s’^tiii^OTnsideraljle^u^n'g '^V.’C-Tlie'-iihrket Avas;broadband:active throughout 'power*in the/market „• '”"‘v
Ithcday, arid-a/'glance'at’the list-will show that "There was^practivaUyino’.demand> for'stocks; in fflt&ks •generally' gained ground.,-The best Mature ^e Joan; crqwd. . The... prevailing, rates were 3^ to i.of.'the1 trading Avas the confidence with which very, xherivy. profit-taking .was received, and the activity
■	dlGhe'com-mission'houses, wlio were doing riliighly 1 respectable business in practically all the active ^issues., The'most of . the movements of the day iwere- changes for 'lhe better,in some cases extending •to 3 points or more. ■ . ’Among"the railroad. stocks, Chicago, Indian-
■	apolis & Louisville advanced 3g$ and the common ■14$. \Hocking-Valley gained'2}/ and the preferred ,-14.''■Reading, issues were the-strongest of the an-’tfiracite coalers; the common gained 14$, while both ; second and preferre'diwere ibotli fractionally-higher. lEi-ie iMJties. also gained 4 to 1/. “Onion Pacific ad-Svanced 34$, while the common closed at Saturday’s ; price. <St. Paul .was fractionally lower,'blit Atchi-'.son common arid preferred gained 4$ or more. The \Vanderbilt issues were neglected and hardly •‘changed,' except for a decline of 24$ in Nickel Plate .common on -100 shares.
• Among the industrials, Amalgamated Copper ; Advanced TJ$, Car Foundry 14$, preferred 3J$. Lo-comotivc common gained and t he preferred 14-\Smelters advanced 1 point and American Sugar 24$. 'Consolidated Gas declined 14$. General Electric gained 24$ and North American 14$. U. S. Steel issues were 4$ higher, Republic Steel common gained 1 point and the preferred 14$, T. C. & 1. 14$, Sloss-Sheffield 1$. while C. F. & I. were unchanged. Chicago & Eastern Illinois advanced 4 points during lhe day.
The Traction stocks were irregular, with a gain of 1J$ in Metropolitan, and a decline of 14$ in Manhattan and 4$ in B. R. T.	,
Increased dividend rumors were very persis-
-tent on B. & 0. common.	.
Chicago houses reported buying orders in Union Pacific, St. Paul and Southern Pacific.
There was a moderate shifting of loans by the banks during the day but notliiug-of any importance.	-’
Great Western was strong on reports that it would join the Northwestern combination on favorable teyms.	.	_
- Inside buying was reported in American Locomotive issues on the big earnings and the increasing'. demand.	’
-Yesterday was the first day of the London set-■flement. The contango rates on American stocks ruled from 4 to 5$.
•Strong points are out, coming apparently from the C.ould following, to buy Missouri Pacific at these prices for an early advance.
It was said that tin* Standard Oil following, although not perhaps the big insiders, had bought Amalgamated Copper during the day.
The buying of the Atchison issues wns good, •hut there was nothing in it to indicate that the combination story had any more foundation in fact than it has ever had.
The monthly Government crop report was published after hours but did not contain anything that gave a lead on the market position either way. Opinion was evenly divided on ils merits.
Insiders are said to be sanguine on the prospect of a dividend on 'San Francisco common. It is claimed to be earning nearly 5$ and likely to maintain lhe present increases well into 1902.
The strength in anthracite stocks, especially Reading and Erie, was due to the better news on the labor situation, which was taken to indicate that there was no fear of strikes for the present.
There was a revival of rumors of a special distribution to Union Pacific in which both common "und preferred would share. There is no reason to believe that these stories have any fouriuiitibn in fact-worth mentioning.
A good deal of pool activity was noticeable all round the room, but especially in Wisconsin Central issues and Chicago Terminal Transfer. The letter move was successful in catching a number of stop orders on the advance.
Chicago & Eastern Illinois advanced rapidly on billing for the inside crowd which used to <-on trol Rock Island. They say there is no reason win the stock should stand below Rock Island, in view of its earnings and powerful position.
In view of the fact that the last dividend on People’s Gas 1ms not been paid yet. talk of a reduction in the next to meet the new taxation seemed premature. It came from Chicago, where it was thought there was a heavy short interest.
Brokers with Waldorf-Astoria connections reported large business from up town, with especially strong buving in Amalgamated Copper. All the wire houses were doing an active business, partie-nlarlv those with connections in New York State.
The strength in Burlington joint -l’s was. of course based on the supposition that if Union Pacific became indirectly a party to the guarantee, their position would thereby acquire an additional strength, which should be reflected in a higher value.	,	,, , .	,,
t andon bought early and sold later, on the bulge, trading in 15,000 shares altogether, evenly divided. The early purchases were largely in U. S. Steel common ami preferred, but there was heavy foreign selling of Fries and Reading on the advances.	,	,	.
The advance in Great Northern preferred was ■based on the idea that the stock would go into the new proprietaiy company at 200. and it was thought that, as the proprietary company is expected to be a 5$ security, it would stand considerably ab°'southern Pacific showed considerable strength throughout 11m day, but especially in the afternoon. .Buying seemed to come from brokers usually trading for a prominent Broad street operator. Tlie advance was rather unexpectedly checked by some rather lieavv selling for foreign account.
The action of Northern Pacific preferred was taken as a further indication that the stock would ■be called at par on the first of January. There is ■good reason to believe that certain outsiders, other than the Hvrriman interest, from whom opposition was expected, are not so hostile as they were.
• The close whs firm, although appreciably under the best, of-1lie day. Selling seemed mostly evening un bv traders who had been disposed to help tlie buving along earlier in the day. The general opin-ion'in the room. however, was that the impetus of the outside buying was by no means exhausted.
■Metropolitan was very strong on the belief that insiders had made a combined attack on the large short interest.-Manhattan sympathized, but B. R. ,1. was not quite so firm as it was thought there would be serious opposition to the attempt to abolish sta-tions'on the road between tlie Bridge and Franklin nvGiiliO.	*»
. American' Car & Foundry issues were very -strong on what was considered well-informed buy-in,, It was said that they were getting very large. ' orders; in fact, were unable to handle all their possible contracts, even though the prices were very good for early delivery in .view of the heavy car shortage.	-	•	. ,
The opening was very strong, encouraged by lhe belief that « wider nuiilie interest had developed and the very bullish tone of the newspapers 'over Sunday. There was more disposition to pay af’ention to rumors of fresh consolidations, espe-,,.<-i1v •’« Northern, Pacific question was considered settled.
■	There appeared, to be some very heavy realizing going on, especially, in Union ■ Pacific anil T.. S.
• Steel slocks, but this was very fairly taken, and the development of. activity-in such stocks as Amal-garrmtod Copper. “Mmnon” and Hocking Valley m-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
...........Th2..,£reyailing!rates were 31$ to 4$,'-with' quite' as imuclr.doneiat ■ the-latter'rate ’. ns tile former. Erie and'Union' Pacific were especially plentiful at 4$. The a'dvance'-in Chicago Terminal preferred had apparently-shaken iji most of the short interest, as there was plenty of-it at 34$.
Trade news-on '• Copper was uniformly bad, so far asit went, but Amalgamated showed .remark-, able strength, arid-people, "who are not generally apt to'buy merely because the-rest of the market is going up, talk of a sharp advance, extending to possibly ten points. ’ They say that it has been rather heavily oversold,'both in-New York and Boston.	'	'	.'	.	'
There was an excellent market for rumors yesterday, and it was not-surprisrag that a settlement between Wabash and‘Pennsylvania,1 on the question of the entry in Pittsburg by the former,'had a revival. The’terms of the'isettlement were not specified,'but it probably served its temporary purpose, and an agreement is' likely to go through some day.
The buying in Pacific Mail'comes from Washington, and' is.-of course, based to a considerable extent on the prospects of the'ship subsidy bill. It is'said that that ninoli contested measure has been recast in such a form as to conciliate opposition and has the President’s approval. The stock is, of course, helped very materially by the extremely limited floating supply.	‘
The Whitney "following is said to be -behind the advance in Metropolitan ■ and is talking of a new issue with valuable rights. The reason for the buying, if it is the true one, is.rather quaint, in view of the indignant'denials that the company wants money which have hitherto been obtainable on request, whenever any move against the Metropolitan shorts was contemplated.	.
The* strength in Union Pacific preferred was one of the features of the day's trading. The feeling that until the Northern Pacific position was adjusted, the collateral trust bonds were a heavy charge in front of this issue has hitherto kept the price low as compared with other issues of the same class. The buying was very good, however, and largely of an investment character.	_
Tlie movement of the steel stoalcs was fairly logical in view of the forcasts in the latter part of last week. Everybody had been told that these issues wore booked for a substantial rise, and the stocks in the afternoon gave very clear evidence that there wire too many people trading the same way. Tn tlie.te circumstances, the rise was checked by selling fiom operators who had bought mi Friday and Saturday, and were disappointed at the action of the stock.	•	’	.	.
The trailing in bonds yesterday was again in xerv satisfaetorv volume and upon the whole fair-Iv disfributed. although Third Avenue -l’s ami Union Pacific convertible 4’s monopolized most of the attention. The former received better protection from 1he inside, and the latter were firm in spite of rather heavy profit-taking. Sprulalivc issues like Wabash debenture B and Mexican income bonds showed very fair strength. The selling of Chicago Termini'.! 4’s seemed rather bettor than •the buving. Baltimore & Ohio convertibles were active and strong. Total sales «tfi.(i2fi.<)tlO.