FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A REAL RALLY. Early Strength and a Strong Close.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jun 12, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
'FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A REAL RALLY.
Early Strength and a Strong Close.
All signs •were encouraging at the opening as the fTrfmdon prices were awy up and the government crop re-fport was distinctly favorable. The opening quotations 'were generally from 1 to 3 points above those of the pre-Jvious day and, contrary to the usual course of the market Lin the recent past, weye generally maintained. There ‘Were threats of further, raids current all day, but none de-‘veloped and indeed there seemed to be an extensive and i uneasy short interest uncovered. Part of the strength I was of course due to covering for this account, but the (buying all round looked good and reflected more general ? confidence in financial conditions than at any time hi the /recent past. The market was flrm up to the close and in-<deed in the last half hour the profit taking sales of the 1 smaller traders were so readily taken that there was an (obvious and aggressive movement against the shorts. It • is probable that the extent of the short interest has been exaggerated, but it is unquestionably large.
’ Among the railroad wtocks, advances of 2 points or 'more were recorded in B. dr O.. Canadian Pacific. St. Paul, 'Delaware •& Hudson, all the Erie issues, Illinois Central. ‘Louisville, "Missouri Pacific .and all the active Gould »stocks, New’ York Central. Norfolk. Ontario, the Heading (issues. Rock Island common and preferred. Southern Railsway, Southern Pacific, Union Pacific, Wisconsin Central [preferred and thc> Wabash issues. This is a representative ’list and indicates the general trend of the market very : clearly.
The industrials gained ground in almost equal proportions with the most important advances in the copper stocks. U. S. Steel issues were very strong, qnd Consoli--dated Gas and American Sugar both showed substantial improvement. The tractions were all strong, with the tprincipal activity in B. R. T.
GENERAL INFLUENCES
Harris. Gates & Co. sold openly the stock they had bought on the previous day.
Tt looked as if some movement, wore in progress to cover the western short interest, said to be considerable.
A. A. Housman dr Co. seemed to have a big buying order all round the room, which was taken as possibly from the Morgan interest.
There is good authority for saving that the Gould party is decidedly more bullish than it was. The satisfactory crop reports from all over their systems, and especially in Toxas, have materially influenced them.
The Hoffman House crowd were good buyers of stock round the room, especially early in the day. but did not seem to care to bid up for their requirements in view of the marked natural strength of the market and its oversold condition.
The general rate in the loan crowd was 21 nnd there did not seem to b.» a great deal of stock lending. It is of course obvious that some of the shorts were obliged to cover on the general rally. Pennsylvania was in about the usual demand at 2% and Canadian Pacific wa? scarce at iy2%.
The Bank of England return is the strongest that institution has made in recent years, although a good showing at this period is naturally expected. The proportion of reserve to liabilities is exceptionally high and the gain in bullion on the week is very satisfactory in 'view of Berlin's bid for gold.
About the best feature of the rally was the good volume of commission house 'business. All the nctive:hduses were well supplied with orders and seemed tn think that many small speculators and investors who have been holding off were now coming into the market. The buying orders came from all directions.
Eord Rothschild’s opinion on the market .was received with interest and rospact. nnd carried a good deal of weight. The impression formed by the foreign houses is that purchases for the other side have really been for foreign investors, while sales through London have been for New York operators. All the arbitrage houses are shipping stock in quantity to Europe.
Tho street gave a rather mixed reception to some ! bearish talk from the loader of the professional element, which has been operating recently on the short side. Tt is ^pointed out that the information contained there would Jhave been touch more useful three months ago, and that tthe clique in question would be more embarrassed than [helped by a following on the bear side and may have some 'aborts to cover.
say that the flood damage is trifling in comparison with the excellent prospects in other parts of the system.
The granger issues were particularly strong on the government crop report which was better than the street expected. Allowing for possible depreciation in ten days the fooling was still very hopeful and it was believed that even corn would make a good showing by this time next month.
The most remarkable advance at the opening was that in Norfolk dr Western, which opened three points higher than the last price on Wednesday. It is probable that tho Pennsylvania controlled roads have .been oversold in the recent attack on the group and on weak bulls, supposed to be carrying these issues in quantity.
INDUSTRIALS.
Specialists thought liquidation in Consolidated Gas was not over.
Tho U. S. Stool issues acted well, and wore materially helped by tho natural strength of the .*»% bonds nnd the willingness of Keene brokers to protect on any serious soiling.
Lower Wall St. is more actively bullish on Sugar. It is claimed that- the stock ha? suffered more than its position warranted in the recent general decline, while trade conditions are, if anything, more favorable than they wore.
Amalgamated Copper showed some strength on the improvement in Rio Tinto and the metal in London. There scorns to be a stronger bull account than there was. The Lewi^nhn interest appears to have bought back stock sold higher up.	.
The buying of Amalgamated Copper by Pearl dr Co. was the feature in that stock. There is some reason to doubt, hwever, if trade interests are really bullish. Tlwrc is a discrepancy between the price of tho metal here and that in London which is likely tn result in some substantial reduction for our quotations. Rather important trade interests do not believe that the present figure can be made effective.
There was a fairly active day’s trading in bonds with a very marked improvement in nil the popular issues. Wabash B’s. Mexican Central incomes and Green Bay B’s showed tho best advances, but Burlington joint 4’s. Oregon Short Line participating bonds. Union Pacific; convertible 4’s and Steel 5*s were nil active and higher. • Government, bonds wore steady and featureless. Total ; sales $2,075,000.
If the market, is not to break wide open, according to the program outlined in some places in the early part ot the week, tho position of the Invars in Canadian Pacific is ilikely to become interesting. The pool has sold no stock and the members, of it—there are only 5—arc not at. al! I likely to have been seriously hurt by the decline. London ihas taken most of tho floating stock here nnd a serious attempt to cover probably have rather startling effects.
London traded in 50.000 shares, practically all purchases. This was straight arbitrage trading, as the Lon-jdon market was particularly strong an<3 gave opportunities for the re-purchase here of stocks sold early in [London. Nevertheless tho sentiment abroad was docid-l edly better, especially ns it was taken that Mr. Balfour’s [Speech had removed the fear nf nu early general eloc-Ition. It seems probable that London has now covered t all its shorts and taken some position on the long side, i especially as British investors took at least a part of the urgent Amsterdam liquidation. ■
' People who ought to be well informed any that although the process has been rather painful, the severe decline has at least secured n good deal better distribution of Rock Island common and preferred and that •‘these is now a bettor nnd wider market nt the lower levels than there has been since the stock was issued. This is simply saying that the natural process of distribution is likely to prove the most effective in the long run. Chicago operators found out long ago that you can call tho public’s attention to n stock but you canuot make it buy it if the price is not attractive.
RAILWAYS.
There is reason for believing that tho buying of New York Central is exceptionally gilt-edged.
The strong buying in Canadian Pacific helped to rally ;the Soo issues. The financial situation in Canada is ad-laiitted to bo much clearer, as the extent of the influence of the Amer failure is now fully known.
The Erie issues showed very noticeable strength nnd have been well bought for some time past. The day’s movement indicated that the Mock hnd been taken off the street,, an inference which was confirmed by a real do-jnand in tho loan crowd.
^Atchison common made the best advance on the day < of the active railroad >tocks, gaining no less than four points. Officials arc confident on the crop outlook and
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.