FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: DISPLAY OF AGGRESSIVE STRENGTH. Traders Sold ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Oct 19, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
OF ^GGEESSIVE ETRENGTB^'.-//•'■
.»r<-* -'jx-.' ” t	. » .’■■■ - - . •
J§n2ara Sold Early. TnitFindinn,-Stocks. TTell Taken. '^^>5’wi/i;?Turn«aBou»ui and Became Buirera. •■	:
butVofferings wcre freely- -taken and commission houses kdi'better business than on any recent day. Trad-ersmoting the -legitimate demand for stocks turned ij'"’i2’?after selling out and bought back Tafhcr freely in jEttKe expectation of a good, bank statement. This oxpec-»tation was realized and in the last hour the market <lis-/jplayed aggressive strength, closing at practically tho ^highest figures of the day. The most notable 'features •were Atchison, -which seemed to be bought by tlio Bock j^Islahd interest and Amalgamated popper, in which tho ^Standard Oil party has recehtly been active, but* Union j/Pacificand the Pennsylvania group of stocks wore also ^notable.
The most active Tailroad at odea were Atchison. Un-.Jxon Pacific. Pennsylvania. Eric. Beading. Bock Island. -/Baltimore & Ohio, St. Paul, Southern Pacific and Mis->/souri Pacific.
£</"Amalgamated Copper was more actively dealt in '2'.than any other stock in the entire list and fluctuated /considerably all Through the session, closing fractionally /•higher than on Triday. on which day it hud scored a ’/substantial advance. Other features of the industrial •list wers U. S. Steel preferred nnd common, Augur. ^Smdtcrs. Car & Eoundry. Tennessee Coal and Colorado /puel. Brooklyn Tlnpid Transit was the most’netive of ■the tractions and also showed a lurgcr gain on The day •-■ithyn nny other ill this group.
V	GENERAL INFLUENCES
’ The bond market moved sympathetically with stocks. ’. £he greater part of the trading being in the morn spec-issues like Steel 5s. Wabash debenture IBs and £3lock Island 5s. Beyond these issues nnd Union Pacific ^convertibles, there was no special feature. Government •/bonds showed, no change. Total sales $1,443,000.
' In the loan crowd stocks generally ■were done, at 2%. ■/Smelters was n notable exception loaning fiat. while New iXork Central loaned at and Canadian Pacific and Pennsylvania at .11-2%.	*	■
RAILWAYS.
/■ The strength in Delaware A- Hudson and the activity tn Jersey Central and other anthracite coalers was largely tho result of reports that there is now a shortage of the Email size of anthracite which produced the glut a few weeks ago. This is regarded ns forecasting activity in th© anthracite region before long.
/. - Tho Bock Island interest, which lmd been a large buyer of-Atchison.'will, it is understood, be given subStantial representation in the board nt the forthcoming meeting, though it will not. represent a controlling inforest and will not, therefore, infringe the interstate bemmerco law.
. Baltimore & Ohio showed considerable strength, although apparently no effort wns made to advance qnntn-tions. The rumor that President Loren was to retire litis again been given official denial nnd lias eonio to be reeog-nized as ono of the weapons of the bear party in the Stock.’	,	• i-.'t	' .tq.jP. r ,
.»• The improving outlook for coal exerted some influ-/ cnee on Norfolk & Western, Chesapeake <fc Ohio, and th? / other soft coalers sympathetically with the anthracite roads ito which the nows of increasing demand primarily .’related. '	■	,
•	’ Canadian l’ncific was cne of the few active stocks
which showed a decline on the day. this being apparently i .the result of profit taking by people who bought at the : time of the drive earlier in tlie week.	<
' Street sentiment favors Pennsylvania ns one of tlie cheapest investment stocks on the list nnd the commission houses report quite a good deal of buying of an investment character.
'	There were indications of some activity by the Haw-
ley interest in Colorado Southern issues, but there appeared to be profit taking in Alton apparently by the saint peoplo.
' Activity in Itissouri Pacific was considered the natural result of the good crops which ernnot fail to give the road a largo freight traffic during the coming winter.
' Brooklyn Bapid Transit showed strength and those ; Jwho know most about the property expect large results " '"from tlie company’s plans for transportation of freight.
c Tho strength in Union Pacific was regarded with
■ .much satisfaction ns probably indicating a bullish posi-. tioti of very strong interests.
:	INDUSTRIALS.
'll ■	'	'	’	.	.	•	.
jj',. There is believed to be a fnir sized short interest in •^American Smelting <Sr Hcfining. but the stock appears to 'V .be held in comparatively few hands and principally among people wlio do not seem t.o be largely committed
"in other directions. These who know most ■ about rhe property soy that the preferred is entitled to rank high
> among industrial preferred stocks.
k	Tho buying of Amalgamated recently is understood
* to have been of .very good character nnd the statement of a .prominent director as to the earnings nnd the financial iposition of the company seem to have had a good effect.
Steel preferred appeared to have been oversold and ■A ^rallied well on the short interest. The contradiction of ' ^ rumors of an immediate reduction in wages had a good ^effect.
Sj . ■ The sharp rally in Colorado Duel was due to the exis.t-Kence of a short interest based on expected labor trouble. ®?The amount of stock in the street is believed to be small.
. . fcj/. There is evidence of n large short interest ill Sugar k,^put out some time ago when rumors of a revival of tho ivktrado war were current.
: ■ ----------------------------- _
Car & Foundry rallied well in sympathy with U. S. “KlStcol and showed tho existence of a largo short interest.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.