FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A SHARP DECLINE. Stocks Relapse Seriously on Supposed
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 20, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4_,r.,...	.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A SHARP DECLINE.
iSStocks- Relapse Seriously on Supposed Standard OU i-	Selling.	■
.	. Tlie opening of the market showed support in places,
‘considerable irregularity, and it was not long before Positive weakness developed. The recent rally seemed to E&ave■ eiiminated the short interest, which, of course, re-i-znoved a valuable source of protection, and from the character of the selling and the stocks eliosen for special pressure the report that the Standard Oil interest was operating for lower prices met with a good deal of credence, and was i>robably trite. * The commission houses ^wcrc carrying quite a line of stocks for their customers oii.seemingly modest margins. and in the early afternoon a.good deal of stock of this character was uncovered. LLarsrer tmdefs became openly bearish and in thejnst-few minutes hammered the general list with some success. ^•t'Crop reports were conflicting and contradictory, but the J ’weather seems cold fur corn. 3l<»ney was easy and is not •.^likely to harden until nearer the end of tlie month. The 7 report from Washington that the finance bill might not £lbe introduced at the extra session of congress had a decidedly depressing hdliionce early in the day. although the /story was considerably modified before the close.
lleclinos of 6vcr 4 points in Thdawarc A' Hudson, and L^thc Rock Island issues, and of two to three points in . Atchison. St. Paul. Erics seconds, Louisville. ^Missouri Pacific. Southern Pacific. Texas Pacific. Vnmn Pacific and ■ the ‘Wabash issues showed the general and seven? char. actor of the break. Every active railroad stock lost aground and declines wore usually of a point or more.
The industrials shared the general tendency with .. :scrious pressure in Amalgamated Copper, the IT. S. Steel pssuos. leather pfd. and consolidated gn>~ Amalgamated •Copper was particularly wepk. The tract inns were depressed with the heaviest selling in Th *R. T.
GENEKAT. INH.UEXCES
. F. W. Savin sold stocks freely round the room.
. Arbitrage houses sold stocks in advance of an expected weak o|wning in London.
There was a light <lnv’s trading in bends with a rcr-isetionnry tvndopcy in Kock Island issues and weakness ;in Wabash Bs. the only features. Steel as wore inclined ♦*to soil off and the (•(invertible issues wore rather heavy. { Government bonds were steady and featureless. Tutu! denies, $1,952,000.
Commission houses wore moderate sellers of stocks. ‘ a few stop loss orders were caught in the general (decline. It is doubtful, however, if there is an extended Ibull account, as the recent public buying has been too largely of an investment character to be affected by the ^reaction.
’ There is no probability of any chance in the Bank '•of England rate, but the return should show the effect of
• the German demand for gold in London. This and the ■probability that America will have to be supplied later : should be rcfieetcd in higher money rates ou the other side, although as a rule the l*:mk of England rarely advances its rate before October.
London was considerably h *s of a factor in the market than in the earlier days of the week, although the foreign Imuses sold some stock. This realizing, however. . did not amount to more than '15.000 shares on balance’ aud it is doubtful if the arbitrage houses traded in 25.000 shares altogether. There was a little disposition among -foreign operators to bid up stool: on the reaction, but for -the most part London was expecting tlie decline to run .further.	•
.	.. ‘ . .... .	UAltAVArS.
Philadelphia seemed to be taking profits in Chesr.-•peuke and Ohio, and Baltimore anti Ohio.
The Waldorf crowd made a vigorous raid on Hock Island at the opening and arc talking rather freely about testing the strength of the control’s market position.
W. Th Oliver sold a little T’nbm Pacific in the afternoon, but it looked as if the Waldorf crowd generally liras getting back stock and in some cases taking the . ’long side of the market.
31. K. &• T. pfd. rallied ns well ns anything and seems rto be in process of accumulation somewhere ns the stock ’ (Sold goes off the market. The earnings show very nearly . ;,8%. on the preferred stork.
... The covering of shorts by Wnssermnnn and Jacob *• [Field was a feature of the afternoon trailing. The forrn-' »er took about. 10.000 shares of Reading and gave the im-
•‘pression that the up-town professionals would lx? willing Ito buy stocks on any further recession.
Stocks were in fair demand in the loan crowd at lVs nnd	There semued to bo some short interest in
.’Atchison and Lnion Pacific, but St. Paul was nwr« plentiful than it had born. Now York Central and Canadian [Pacific loaned flat and a small premium might have been exacted in both instances.
-	Iiock I sin ud was nb-out the weakest stock in the list
. and traders could only conjecture that its Chicago friends ?. had become owr-cxH-iided. There was no attempt on the •’•'.'.part of the control to support the price, and broker.-, who
•	wore said to be buying on behalf ot the 31 cores on 1 uos-' -day were among tlie heaviest sellers. .1 here is some
reason to tliiuk that bankers do not want any new finunc-. ing nt present and have frowned down the manipulation T* of the stock.	.	________
. ’	INDUSTRIALS.
r * Specialists reported some stop orders caught in IT. ■S. Steel.	.
' . IT. A. Harrison’s sales were probably over estimated, ‘ but they -may easily have umounfl'd t<» 50,000 shares nnd
•	.were ascribed tu the Standard Oil interest.
Virginia Carolina Chemical common opened a point off on the passing of the dividend which, however, had
■ been expected.
'	The most disturbing factor in the early trading was
•	the report from Washington that the chances of n cur-•‘ .rency bill nt the early session in November were put very y bTTgiit. It is said that the Standard Oil interest uttaches /c a good deal of importance to such legislation, nnd is dis-ft posed to express its disapproval of the delay by hnnuncr-J'.?lng the market a little.
There was n little western selling in Tennessee Coal Iron uml IT. S. Steel, coming from people who ex* U;prefl»ed serious doubts ns to the report that the Steel /^Corporation is likely to acquire the former property. ^{People who ought to know .have not. hoard of any now "“‘-’-^volopment/s, and the story looks doubtful as the con-'«/trol of T. C. A I. nnd Colorado Fuel which used to be ^'identical. is now changed.
•	TJETTTNG ON THE lAl.’HT RACE.
Betting on the yacht race on the outside market on '■^Wednesday was very lively, with the odds ruling 2 to 1 '/Sn'thc Reliance.
----------------7~~
1.	-Salas	of stocks	from	10 to 1*1 o’clock 264.300	shares.
5'.Sales	of stocks	from	11 to 12 o’clock,* 156.000	shares.
Sales	of stocks	from	12 to 1 o’clock. 128,600	share*.
Sales	of stocks	from	1 tn‘2 o’clock. 100.600	shares.
’Salos of stocks from 2 to 3. 100.000 shares.
Total sales of stocks to 3 o’clock, 840300 ahara«-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.