FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: THE RALLY CHECKED. Prices Eased Off After Showing Consid
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 29, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
FEATURES OFTHE MARKET.
Iowa Central, Chicago Terminal,Mexican/Central and the smaller industrials in quantity.	.	.	■
INDUSTRIALS. .	'	•
U. S. Steel: preferred showed considerable strength and probably received some assistance from the Morgan brokers.
The opening was decidedly firm, although the Lon-?oon market did not tell much, and some of the buying ' {was rather plainly the covering of shorts put out by -^brokerage houses to protect themselves against the position of their customers. London, sold in the .morning, •*but the market was strong and gave evidence of organ-iftzod support lof a* .rather aggressive character. Thq ^manipulation for the purpose of - facilitating further liquidation was evry palpable, but the very fair market ifoi hitherto inactive specialties showed that the necessity* to. jettison a good deal of cargo in the recent past t-b.ad lightened the ship and it was plainly making better weather.- In the afternoon the trading became nar-Tower, and in the last'hour there was a positive reaction which’carried prices hack to within a small fraction of the previous night’n close, although advances on the day were more general than declines. The news developments were not important ns no considerable earnings for June were published, while the easier-tone in wheat > contradicted the reports *of hot winds in Kansas. Call Imoney was easy enough, as nobody wanted it. but time imoncy is stiff and hard to get. It is plaiu that both tfie borrower and his collateral are closely scrutinized at 'present.
Among the railroad, stocks, "Erie seconds made about tthc best advance although Louisville gained a point. i.AVith the exception of Southern Railway. Union Pacific -and Atchison common, all the active issues made small ‘fractional improvements on the day. The close, how-lever, was generally a point or more below the best quotations.
• The copper stocks showed improvement under the lead of Amalgamated, and the strength in U. S. Steel preferred had an encouraging effect elsewhere. The ’-tractions wore not. active, but Metropolitan showed considerable strength on small sales.
GENERAL INFLUENCES
Post & "Flagg sold something like 20.000 shares of stock round the room in the first, hour or so.
The reportod’hot winds in Kansas and the west had an unfavorable influence in the middle of the day.
In spite of reports to the contrary, the specialists arc confident that there have been no Kului-Loeb orders in the market either way.
London was a moderate seller early ami the foreign houses reported a good deal of nervousness on the other side over the situation in the l'ar East.
The Morgan brokers made very little secret of the fact that the market had lw»en advanced tn facilitate some lur-ther liquidation and did not. seem to have much sympathy to spare for people who had not gotten out.
The most general rate in the loan crowd was 29r. but a good deni of stork loatnnl nt |L*/. Thon? did not seem t‘> be very much account open either way. New York Central was in demand at ’2% and Canadian Pacific loaned flat.	-*
There was a fairly active day’s trading in bonds and some further improvement in such issues as Wabash Us. Steel 5s. Union Pitcifir convertibles and the Kock Island issues. The pool in Georgia Central incomes was liquidating with some success. Government bonds- were steady and featureless. Total sales $3,<>-KLO00.
' The strength ic Rubber Goods seemed to contradict the rumors that there had been any change in the disposition of the Keene holdings.	-	'
The railroad equipment companies report that the disturbance in the street is to some extent affecting business, but the prospects for the future arc good.
. The Standard Oil people are credited with a good deal of the buying of Amalgamated Copper round about these levels. It is certain that a good deal of stock has been delivered to brokers usually acting for the Rockefeller interest.	.	’
Standard Rope & Twine seems to have been able to borrow the money it needed so that the next interest on the bonds is secure. Its friends, however, are not particularly cheerful and it is plain that sooner or later some readjustment of its relations with the selling company will have to be made.
London traded in about :>0.000 shares, all sales. This selling was principally in Erics and Southern Pacific. Lbut extended tn most of the international issues. The rforcign. banking houses were impressing the necessity lor caution upon their London correspondents, especially as it. was not certain that all the financial trouble was over. There is good reason to believe, however, that ’London banking interests arc quite willing to lend money on approved American securities.
While the 'Waldorf-Astoria crowd by their most prominent representatives openly bought stock during the day. they «.!<» not seem to bo very bullish yet. The street is beginning to soo that a good deal of the selling Lv the Weil following in the last few months, although it was alleged to be bear hammering, really represented long stock for people who foresaw recent market developments. The Standard Gil interest in particular seems to have used this means of unloading stock.
RAILWAYS.	•
Jacob Field and Oliver were early buyers of railroad stocks in some quantity.
Atchison was weak on the expectation that the Juno statement would show a heavy decrease in consequence of the flood.
There is good reason for believing that, the pool in Colorado Souhtern has not been forced to let go any of its holdings.
There was still some pressure from Landon in Southern Pacific probably representing the liquidation of pool stock.
The Standard Oil people arc said to have boon very fait buyers of Missouri Pacific. Manhattan and Louu-* rille in the recent past.
A rumor was current of the early retirement of Reading seconds and the declaration of dividend on th-? common. There set-ms to be some l ull account on the June earnings.	t
Canadian Pacific did not art particularly well and gave the idea that the short interest which has been considerably reduced wits about the best, source of strength in the recent past.	___________
Philadelphia houses had buying orders in Pennsylvania and took a good deal of the stink during the day. The paying off of the SWUMHU”»(> loan was a bull argument not only <m the stock, but on the general market.
The selling in New York Central looked rather good, especially ns the brokers who have recently been acting for .the Vanderbilt interest have not shown much disposition to follow the stock up. Stop orders in some quantity were caught on the decline.
People who would certainly know of any new developments in the matter did not confirm the reported with* , drawnl of the Keene opposition in Southern Pacific. The story was not believed and there is some reason for saying that if anything the feeling is more bitter than ever.
One of the stories current on New York Central (and the supply of rumors is noticeably large),is that ;thc Vanderbilt people became alarmed at this increasing r/Standard Oil influence? and have taken practically all tuo stock sold in the last few days. Most of the other stories ■more or loss involve special settlements of the Gould-Pennsylvania question and are not worth repeating, n.< ithey orc mutually contradictory.
One of tho.most satisfactory developments of the day ‘ was the evidence that there was quite a respectable sale for a-great many stocks fur which in the recent past the Spools were tho only market. This result has. of course. r;becn brought, about nt n ruinous sacrifice to 11 number of yavndieatas. but it is now noBaibla to soil such stocks n<i
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.