FEATURES OF THE MARKET: A CONTINUED RALLY. Stocks Show Strength from the Opening
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 13, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
SWURESOF'THE'IXRKET.
A CONTINUED ORALLY.?	j [
'fitoaks'Show Strengih 'from- the Opening and- Close Near
-7 ’	. iheiBcek	: '
piondon market was encouraging and the atti-jnda’iof/ the'professionals in ,the early trading showed ^^^.ir-tlxey.1 thought the-rally of-the, previous day would iunjfuriher. -The’ floor ‘traders at least were operating wor^ah/advanec andrevidently read the market correct-Jl^^lpCondon'.was a fair buyer and whether the western ' j/d^was. covering shorts or not it was certainly buy-?xhg-stocks. The wire-houses, and, especially those with jT^hiladelphia connections, were well occupied and the-jmpre cheerful tone in the* street was very marked. Trad-ffng‘ became a little dull in the early afternoon but prices -did‘not'react materially and in the last hour the market ’hardened again closing firm with practically all of its -advance retained. * News developments were either good or else the temper of the street made them so. anti even ^he/announccment that the aggressive Rock Island in-plerest’ had talccn a position in Seaboard did not disturb 'tthe market as it might have done a week ago. The move-^xnent .of exchange was nil in our favor and although ’at^can. hardly be said that we need gold, the moral ef-, feet/df a^.fow-shipments from• London or Paris would • boy*oxcellen.t. -Nobody was worrying much about re-tports of cool weather in the com belt. We should rcallj be^spared that kind of rumor until the middle of September, at least, when it will as usual have more at-ten-'tion than it deserves.
-The advance in the railroad stocks was general and large. The best gain was over eight points in Delaware Hudson, but improvements of two points ox* nxom •were-recorded in such various stocks as St. Paul, Hock-ing..Valley common and preferred. Louisville. M. K «&• ’T^rpfd.. Missouri Pacific. New Vork Central. Reading, the Rock Island issues. Southern Railway pfd.. an! Texas Pacific, and gains of a point at least wore the rule.in all other active stocks. The industrials shared the.general tendency with the best advances in Consolidated-Gas. Amalgamated Copper, the railroad equipment issues,- and 17. S. Steel common- and preferred. The Ttractions were strong but not particularly active.
GENERA!. INFLUENCES
.. -Traders attach a good deal of importance to the fact that the market rallied from a state of considerable duli-ncss, following upon the sharp disturbances of Saturday. This generally means a rally sufficiently }»nwerful to carry stocks further than a three days’ advance before -there is any chock in the movement.
. The trading in bonds was qnitx? native and the hn« provement was general. Central Georgia issues,* Rock Island 4s and 5s. Tobacco 4s. ’Krisco 4s. Seaboard 4s. Union Pacific convertibles. Steel 5s. and Wabash Bs. wore all active, and without exception gained ground on the .day. Government Lon<U were steady but little mentioned. Total sales, $2,973,000.
-It might have been expected that there would have Been more covering of shorts on the rally. The demand for stocks in the loan crowd, however, was good ami considerably more stock loaned at 1	than 2%. Xew
Vork Central was wanted nt VsG . St. Paul, l'nion Pa cifie. Poxjn-e.v 1 vania an'd Atchison were nil scarce well Below the general rate, and Canadian Pacific was only a little mere plentiful at 1'2 of !f<*.	.
London bought about 25.GUO shares mostly in th*, first hour, but was a moderate seller on the advance. The purchases were well distributed, but were conspicuous in Erie and Atchison, while foreign houses took Heading up to	about the best, price of the,.early
trading. The very moderate sales from the curb were in U. S. Steel. St. Paul ami Union Pacific. The sentiment bn the other side i-» unquestionably bullish, and although the market there is disposed to go slow in the matter of speculative stocks the foreign purchases of bonds in the last fortnight have been on quite a large scale.
-	RAILWAYS.
Philadelphia was about the best buyer of Norfolk "Western during the day.
The North American bought during the day was said to have been for friends of the Morgan interest.
The rally in the Wabash issues was based on the bo* llief that a weak account had been successfully liquidated.
The strength in Manhattan was largely itt sympathy jvrith the seven-point advance in Interborough on the [curb.	'
•:	The advance inJErio second was considered signifi-
cant in view of the expected good statement and the belief that there would be a dividend before the end of the year.
The firm tone in Reading and "Eric was again a feature and seems to reflect about- equally the excellent character of the recent buying and the forthcoming annual statements. The showing in Eric in particular will be j extraordinary.	-
Brooklyn Rapid Transit was firm but certainly not in connection with the stupid o1<l rumor that it. had been bought by Pennsylvania. It was hoped that, this story*. 6vhich was one of the results of the purchase of Long XUand by Pennsylvania, had ar last been forgotten.
. . . There is very little question that Son preferred will get its dividend next month. There i** no reason why the -preferred should not go on its full 7% basis at once, as it will only require* $245,000 to pay half a year’s dividend, while the surplus after all deductions is $2'800.000.
7 Tt is said that an iitflwnlml ni«*ml»vr of the Gould pool sold stock in sonu* quantity during the recent decline. and there is some argument ns to whether ho was entitled tn do so without explaining his position to the other members of the syndicate, especially ns they were Hhc buyers of most, of the stocks, x
more. He frequently trades for the Morgan interest, but this purchase is suspected to have been for some other source.
‘ . ■'*Thc..s1rcngth in the Great Western issues was di-<rectly7traceable to the report that negotiations were jin progress for tl»e control of the road by one of ythe’larger western Interests. There were various ru-/more as to which interest was meant, .but good opinion {favored St. Paul, especially ns this would explain per-(Bistent rumors current ns to now financing.
/ The Seaboard-purchase wn« In the nir all day, and jperhnps tho most important point in it was the understanding that no new financing was involved. As Rock *Iblhnd?hns n trifle of $250,000,000 bonds for issue, to sa\ *	of the.,$150,000,000 by St. Ixiuis Ar San Fnnicis-
satisfactory to .know that tho Moore plans at pxwent, arc limited to these amounts. The true expinna*
* f.... to bo that Seaboard, or.tho people who consti-its; control, received most important permanent ud« - in exchange for temporary assistance. .
----------------------
7,	INDUHTRJALS.
*. is ’The* rally in Consolidated'Gas was in linn with tho bfelief^that the squeezing out of certain weak holdings lmd booh; completed. .	-
^^Jlousman ^asr.quito a large'buyer in the early-after-noonyround^tberoom, andpaid panic^ular .attention?to Steel' cwnmoD,:of which: he probably - took 5,000 shares or • ■ ■ ■
Tho strength in American Sugar in spite of the cut in tho price of refined, was rather curious in view of th** recent weakness of the stock. Lower Wall street was talkiug par before the opening of congress quite recently, but it looked ns if some trade authorities were taking advantage of tho cut to get in a little stock.
Amalgamated Copper showed considerable strength on what looked like well-informed buying. Boston is more bullish on the theory that tho disturbance in th-* stock market has strengthened the position of tho Amalgamated people considerably, and it is probable tlinf the Standard Oil interest has taken back a good deal of stock sold at higher levels.
Sales of stocks from 10 to 11. 274,000 shares.
. Sales of stocks from 11 to 12 o’clock 127,500 shares. Salos of stocks from 12 to 1 o’clock, $3,70(1 shares. Sales of stocks from 1 to 2 o’clock, 105,700 share**. Sales of stocks from 2-to'3 o’clock, .170,000 shares.
Total to 3 o’clock, 770,500 shams.	.	.
„ Milwaukee.—Tho Plunkinton Bank litigation, which hns becn in the courts for ten ycars> was settled Tuesday by an order . of. Judge -Tnmnit* drawn upon tho linos of.n petition •for a settlement, filed oxi July,30 by tha .auigneo, the Wisconsin Fidelity Trust .& Safe Deposit Company,	‘	'
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.