FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A GENERAL RALLY. Vigorous Buying by Traders Forced Shorts
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Oct 21, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
opening"vras^somewhat irregular as - the early;
. ^ewfifromTPittsbnrgj'indicatingsomefinancial embarrass- ■ ' ‘there;-was not? encouraging. The reports from Balti..	. on tho otKerhand, were more xeassuring,3nd when
it vwas-found that very little stock.was coming-out, prices •developed air advancing tendency and'the general list im-bidding by thejtraders and a covering ' ^xaovenieht of'considerable proportions. London sold stock ^*;n-fwim<5c/but’h'ot’'tb any remarkable extent, and the r<’mnrket‘"'W8s well’ disposed ‘ to ‘ take it, especially as there .^•was/iio ''stock pressing anywhere,-and the liquidation iu ^.^the.5minor industrials seemed to'have run its course. ^American Sugar advanced quite in its old style and al-jXthbugh it has never been a market leader, tEe' influence • ;fupbii the other industrials was good. Tho market became .^fdull-in -the early afternoon and in the last hour-lost a of its enrb* advance, closing firm, however, and not ^ffar<fromthc best of tho day. There was .nothing in ex-^change or the call money rate to excite comment, aud in- ! ,.j$ideed the fact that call money did not harden, coupled ywith the. return of stocks in the loan crowd, would indicate 1 y^that a good deal of tlxe buying represented lhe covering £/<»f shorts.	’	-
r Advances were very general in the railroad list, cx- 'tending to two points or more in Atchison, St. Paul. Al-r* 'ton, Louisville, Missouri Pacific and Union Pacific, while » practically all the active issues gained at least a point on . . -the dny.The grangers and Pacifies were about the stTong-x est group.
The industrials shared the general tendency with a five-point advance in American Sugar, gains of two points " or more in Amalgamated Copper. Smelters and some of 'tlie minor industrials, and one-point advances in the Steel stocks. The tractions were generally firm and all gained two points and upward on light transactions.
one or two weak linos, particularly*™ the railroad equipment issues and perhaps also iu Smelters.
In view of the near approach of the extra session of congress and'the general belief that'Cuban reciprocity will be the principal business, it was interesting to note that some of the Sugar buying orders came from Washington.
The pool brokers were credited with the buying orders in Smelters and seemed anxious to mark the prico up and take as little $tock as possible iu doing so.
<	CEXERAT/ IXFr.UENCES
There was only a moderate day’s trading in bond**, -.;bufc the tone was firm. The lighter transactions in Steel r 5s would indicate that they have been successfully dis-•- tributed in the recent past. There was a ^better inquiry for tho convertible issues. Rock Island bonds improved easily and Wabasli Bs were strong. Government bonds >> were steady without much feature. Total sales. $2,147,-• 000. ■
_ London probably traded in 30,000 shares of stocks.
- and after buying a little early turned on the advance* and sold rather freely, probably to the extent of 10.000 shares • ; on balance. The.transactions seemed to be very largely of an arbitrage character, and the foreign houses reported operators on the other side either indifferent er indined to take the short side of the market on rallies.
The demand for stocks in the loan crowd was very perceptibly reduced. There was some request for Pennsylvania at	New York Central and Smelters at
1% and Canadian Pacific rather under the latter figure. St. Paul aud Atchison wore both wanted, but everything else was freely offered and sonic considerable blocks of stocks were returned.
.	- One of the largest western houses was an influence
;in the rally and although its customers were very bearish for a tfcno it seems to be trading for them on the long side.
Some of the selling orders oil the advance were ; . thought to have been given out by people in rather close touch, with 2G Broadway.
' Advices from trustworthy sources to the most influential commission houses indicate that no further trouble ?/ is likely in Baltimore.	'	, . .
The leading commission houses say they have not been so bare of stocks since the summer of-1900.
:	BAILWAl’S.
The rally in Baltimore & Ohio was an encouraging -C feature in view of the ^xyrsistent attack made upon that . >stock in the recent past. Now that the financial diflicul-ties in Baltimore are pretty well known, traders are by - .no.means inclined to follow the stock down, especially as - the,loan crowd gives some indications of overselling. ’
e The movement in the tractions was a little confus-. ing ns the street did not regard the improving pros-• .pects of the fusion candidate for mayor as a bull argu-' /xnent on those stocks. The floor traders were inclined to -suspect that the price of both B. II. T. and Metropolitan was marked up to sell stock.
•	After the traders had made up their mind that the
•\ ' 10,000 shares sold early represented the extent of Was. serman’s orders in Reading, they put up the common stock very easily. London sold a little of it on the ad-■ vancc. Philadelphia was a fair buyer.
Mr. Morgan’S statement that Erie second was Likely to go on a 4% basks next year caused some inquiry for ' that stock and shewed that, a great deal of it has been ' taken out of the market. Tho common stock acted well and has been well bought lately.
People in a position to judge think that very little Ontario & Western is held abroad now but believe that the Canadian holdings have materially increased in the past two years.
London was one of the early buyers of Southern Pacific, but it was-thought that tlie Keene following was ■ doing something on the long side in both that stock and Union Pacific.
After rallying with the rest of the market Louisville chocked, and there is some reason to think that the liqui-clation in that stock is not yet over. ■
■ *'< ■
£«-
£
’27.
$;
K
£
The renewed buying of Alton by Ilnllgartcn & Co. attracted attention, as it was their purchases that put the stock up in the recent past.
It was thought that the Gould brokers had early buy-ling orders in Missouri Pacific and were doing something -to help the market generally.
The small premium exacted for the use of Southern Railway preferred was the best support of that stock.
Dominick & Williams were credited with somo of the pool buying orders in Alton. '	.
INDUSTRIALS.
For tlie first time in a considerable period tlie houses . .with lower Wall street connections wore quite aggressive SiWbuyers of. Sugar. There was probably some Boston short interest to i help the advance and some of .the. traders took KJjthc/short,side on the theory that the price tvas high rela-jtfe’+tivcly .to, that of other industrials. The stock, however, SEjSis"very well distributed and tho traders bullish.
sS’t-:.-.	:—
../Amalgamated. Copper was one of tho stocks which ''jacted'better in tho early trading. The view held in the /best informed quarters is thnt if the .Boston & Montana decision is favorable, the. most serious obstacle to an ad"	— -will bo ,removed, but if it goes against, tho Amnl-
-—-‘ed'Copper pcoplc a good.deal of long,stock will ' ’out or. bo .forced out. .	.	.	'
lOiA.s’iThcJmprovement in the minor industrials was ono ,*gthe! best’features, d t was/thought that itherally of Triday/mid: Saturday 'had facilitated, the 'liquidation of
■ /'■ ' ' ■ ' ..■■ ..... - :
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
