FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A GENERAL RALLY.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Oct 2, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
^OENERALRAEIiY.
‘ImprovedAfter ‘ Opening Uncertainty and > Closed'Strong*	• '
‘’■sjjgZBi® xjpening of .the market 'was rather above the dc. :l''<d°sing figures - of the previous day, but in. the Effrst'-hcur - there was-considerable irregularity and-some - iiion.’ to sell off. : From' that point, however, there ,j ."« steady improvement, developing into real strength t,4n'«the-early, -afternoon. The loan, crowd had shown Tty clearly that there was a good shore interest in the market, arid it was obvious also that a powerful section of .’LLe;professional clement was operating for an advance. |*$The outside business was not extensive, and a good deal b*oft the'selling was good. Stock, however, was taken well “rind- general sentiment was noticeably less nervous. The ijrelose was strong and hear the best of the day. The ^continuance of the IT. S. bond underwriting syndicate ^withrmost of its members retaining their interest was- a Jjbull."factor and the appearance of Mr. Harriman on ?Sthe Erie board was also helpful. The slightly harder recall ‘money rate did no harm, and the weakness in cx-^change was cf course all in tho market’s favor.
Advances were general in tho railroad list extending ^tto i nearly four points in Pennsylvania and two points y.or rnOro iii Iiock Island, New York Central, Illinois ^Central, St. ’Paul, Baltimore «fc Ohio and Atchison, jiwhiiri nearly all the othef active issues gained a point ■ior more.'
Industrials acted pretty well with the best advances •■irn. ’American Sugar, Amalgamated Copper, the IT. S. ?fSteel stocks and' Consolidated Gas. which latter gained .’four points. Tractions were generally firmer with the Tbest advance in B. IL T.
r.-.	GENERAL INFLUENCES
Z Out of something like 20.000 shares dealt in, London ' must have Sold 10,000 on balance. The arbitrage houses * tbought early, but sold on the advance, the London mar-iiet did not answer to our fluctuations very quickly, and r there were fair opportunities for arbitrage. The foreign . sentiment was extremely conservative, but not particularly bearish, and the disposition was more to take profits on stock bought on Monday than to take the short . side.
Pearl «&r Co. were the largest sellers of Pennsylvania in the early trading.
INDUSTRIALS.
The trading in bonds was largely made up of the operation in Ui S. Stool 5s which gained ground in the face of a very heavy volume of sales. Improvement in Consolidated Tobacco 4s was a. good feature os they had been under tire in the recent past. There was a fair inquiry for convertible issues and fractional mont recorded.
ina p rove-
week of case with
Amaltfinnatod Copper gave evidence last some accumulation, and confirmed it by the which it rallied. The Standard Oil people apparently regarded the movement with favor.
There was some trading in the next dividend of U. S. Steel common. There was a standing bid of V2%« but a good deal of it was offered at 34%.
there from there made
• The Bank of England mur» was only nntewoTthy 'for the heavy decline in the proportion of reserve to lin-’ bilitics. In the corresponding week of last year * was a similar decline and the rate then advanced 3% to 4%. As wo n?o over the end of September is a better chance that the present 4% rate can be effective, and it would not be surprising if no further increase was made this winter.
One of rhe brokers who does a large part of the Standard Oil business said that there wore supporting orders in the market, although he did not think there was any intention nt 2«» Broadway io bid up prices. The ' same broker sold stock on Monday but probably got his orders from bearish western operators to give color to a report circulated then that the Standard Oil people were selling.	‘
There was less demand for stocRs in the loan crowd than there had been ou Wednesday and more stock was offering. In spite of tho stiffer rail money rate, however. nothing loaned over . while New York Central was in demand nt 1% and tint, ami St. Paul. Atchison, Pcnns.vlva'niit and Union Pacific were all wanted under the ruling rate.
The scare story published in one of the morning papers was not treated very seriously in the street,.. .The closest inquiry failed to confirm it. and so far ns the per-sonX indicated were concerned, rhe tale was flatly contradicted by people whose knowledge would be absolute in ^-sucha matter. ...	•---
Perhaps the- best, feature of the day's trading was the readiness with which Steel ”>’s were absorbed. E. dr C. Randolph had $1,000,000 of them to sell and W. B. Oliver sold $000,000. The latter reported them readily taken and the buying seemed very largely by the more important investment houses.	•
’ Some of the trailers wore arguing that, a prominent Broad street operator was short of the market, but missed the opportunity to cover on lilondny. lift was said to have, therefore, hammered Pennsylvania on Wednesday in order tn get on the long side of the market.
There were n number of conflicting stories as tn the proportion of members of tin' I”. S. Stool bond underwrit. ing syndicate who would withdraw, but it is probable that only a small portion did so. The street naturally rregarded this continuance as a bull argument.
A careful canvass of the commission houses showed a more cheerful sentiment, but a very limited public interest in tho market. There was a fair amount, of investment buying, but out of all proportion to the ^heayy professional operations.
very
The leading arbitrage houses said that they runable to confirm any rumors of financial trouble in don.
were Lon-
> Frank Savin had some western buying orders which ■ ' were considered good.
, ■	■	BAIL.WATS.
. The severe break in Seaboard stocks on the curb
/.'.-■nd the. weakness of the bonds on tlie floor, which were offered at TO with no bid, was tlie result of the catching of some Baltimore stop orders. None of the local Senboard interests were concerned in tho matter, and it is '/probably fair to say that the holders of tlie option on the control are not especially concerned in-the support of the market.	______
VT -Tho strength of Erie was one of the features of.ike r'market .from tlie opening. The street attached a good >/deal' of importance to Mr. Harriman’s appearance on the ®jl>oard of the road ns indicating a union of interests .y-'which wore once in seriou? conflict.
jt'.Z -." "	-	—■■ -	■■	.
? -Ibero was a big crowd and big trading in PcnnsyU
s;Svania-.with the. Keene brokers rather prominent. Tlie graying, seemed to come largely from traders who had Sahld on the previous day, and presumably represented the ^covering of shorts.	1	.
.There wub some good Helling of Louisville on the. sjijfidvanqe. and it seems likely that there is more stock S&to come. An account of some size was carried over Mon-»;day with difficulty and only partly liquidated on Tuesday.
—---------------;--
N«w York-Central rallied more on tho shorts than
or .any!other reason, and there seemed to be rather
|&ood selling on' the advance, although the traders marked igaiti'up to nearly the top price at tlie close.
il&.-^Thei sharp . rally in Pennsylvania-was the natural i®£on«equciice of the evidence afforded ’ in the loan crowd |®£id,..elsewhere that, tlie decline of Wednpsday had been Rffitba/result.. Of a boar. raid.
KSfc/nie -brokers most-frequently acting for the Nock H&niisnd -control were. in the’ .market. again, and seemed I ^anxious tq<getrth'et-common stock tham to put tho j up. . ' . ' ;	'	_■_______ 1	.
jhireswas resumption of selling.in Baltimore Ohio liilooked: to bo.rather well-informed.. although the ierlous of tho; liquidation, there isaaid tobd over.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.