FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A BAD BREAK. An Unfavorable Bank Statement ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 10, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4 , . .	. . ...
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
* _	A BAD BREAK.	-	•	.
•'■■■ \An Unfavorable Bank Statement Demoralizes a, Sagging
*	.	-Market in the Last Half Hour.
■The opening was not particularly cheerful, as Lon*
-	«flcn showed plain signs of pressure in thq more active : ' -Btocks. and the decline of the previous day had received
—	•• no adequate explanation. l?riccs sagged from the open’ • lng ’but could hardly have been called weak up to t-he ■ ■ publication of the bank statement, although there was
some short selling and- probably judicious liquidation where the market would stand it. The bank statement, however, frightened an. already nervous market, and trad-G; ers sold stock recklessly, unquestionably catching many stop orders in the most important issues. That a good deal of this selling was by people who had not the stock to deliver the remarkable demand for stocks in •the loan crowd very plainly showed, but this explanation did not :• .develop until, after the close and it was with a heartfelt sigh of relief that the members on the floor heard the twelve o’clock gong. Apart from the bank statement in. dividual developments had not the slightest influence and could not bo traced in any of the price movements.
When it is said that Union Pacific declined nearly four points. St,. Paul three and Atchison three, and such .. railroad stocks as Baltimore & Ohio, Northwest, Big
*	Pour, the Urie issues. Louisville, Alissouri Pacific. ^<ror York Central, and Wabash preferred two points or more, -the general character of the decline can be seen. Cann-
' dian Pacific was. actually the only active stock to make a gain on the day.	.
The industrials were weak, although outside of the break in Consolidated Gas and People’s Gas tlm declines ■were not so extensive as those in the railroad stocks, while the Steel issues were -well supported and lost less than a point. The tractions wcro vctj- weak. with a severe declino and serious pressure in all of thorn and particularly Metropolitan and 11. It. I.	•
.	GENERAL INFLUENCES
The bonds to a lesser decree shared the downward tendency of the general market. There "was vigorous liquidation in Wabash Bs. Tobacco Is. and the more speculative issues, -while Union Pacific convertibles and Steel £s -were very active and substantially lower. Government bonds -were heavy but not much dealt in. Total sales $1,252,000.	~
■ The loan crowd had considerable significance and in spite of the heavy sellinc of the last half hour it was noticeable that, am stock loaned above 2%. while several were manifestly oversold. St. Paul was in demand flat and looks like loaning nt. a premium to-day. Now York Central could not be borrowed at VaCe and lent .flat, and the premium on Canadian Pacific was 1's to 3-IG. with the shorts in it nble to carry over their stocks only hv the courtesy of the foreign houses.
London sold something like 35.000 shares representing practically all the purchases of the previous day. Operators in London stayed on the curb up to our close and the arbitrage houses had niorf business than on any'Sat* lTrflay for a long time past. The fo’reign sentiment is nervous on the lack of real information as to the conditions of tl>s market, and although essentially bullish on values the foreign operators arc by no means inclined to buy without a-lead from this side. '	,
____________—, RAILWAYS.	' ’
Some of the selling’in B. IJ. T. was Said to he pool stock.	'
The Gould“frrokcrs sold Missouri Pacific on the break withont much disguise.
There was sbmc Harriman support in Uxiion Pacific and Southern Pacific^
The specialist in St. Paul reported some heavy stop orders in the neighborhood of 134.
London was a heavy seller of Union Pacific. This •was understood to represent an account liquidated before our opening.	.
The liquidation of B. B. T.. People's Gas and Consolidated Gas Seemed to all come from the same group of houses and was very vigorous.
The drop in St. Paul was heavy, especially in the last half hour, but the scarcity of tluj. stock flat in the loan crowd showed plainly that the most disturbing of the selling was for shorts.
Illinois Central cannot, be borrowed except in very smnll quantity flat or even nt a small premium, and them is such a narrow mnrket for the stock that it is difficult to see where the shorts could cover in any real rally.
The Gould supporting orders were again withdrawn from Jtissouri Pacific. The delivery of many Gould stocks out. of names which might to be well informed has been one of the most disturbing influences of the recent past.
Canadian Pacific made practically the only advance on the day. The premium to-day may be t.a% quite easily, ami although the bear attack upon it lias been most courageous and persistent it cannot, be truthfully sard that long stock in sufficient quantity to justify it has come out.
Oliver was hammering away at Canadian Pucific with results out of all proportion to the amount of effort involved. The loan called seemed to have been fully liquidated on Friday. The Canadian Pacific pool proper had a division of its profit lust September, but has stood ready to take the stock since and probably lias a good deal to carry, ds it consists of Lord Strathcona, Van Horne, Shaughnessy, llosinor, and Cox it. is qtiilc a largo contract for tlm Waldorf-Astoria interest.
industrials.	.
The U. S. Stool issues held fairly well, with Morgan buying orders ngnm in evidence. The Btreet was dubious of the report of purchases of the common stock by the company to reduce the capitalization, but there .’s no question that the recent buying of the preferred has been by well-informed people.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.