FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A VIGOROUS RALLY. The Sharpest Recovery in Many Months
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Sep 30, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
opening of the market was somewhat irregular as in^ithe exception, of Pennsylvania everything was down nj^xmdan and consols were weaker than ever. It did not ^&Uong,-however^'to show that support of a new dharar, «waa being given to the market, and before the first hr4’ .1 ‘over, a vigorous rally had set in.. - For months past e *
4 2y* support* has been in the nature of protecting! orders to weyent ^prices from; getting out of hand altogether, and jMITirrcbni'rc buying 'like that* of Tuesday was a surprising ~. ; Tho recovery was general, and the more marked p_?there'-was no special news development to account for the'advance any more than there had been to explain the —.-The recovery in Pennsylvania‘was an important ctor, especially as it was clear that the decline in it had been: largely on short selling, and a similar inference was _raws, "rightly ■ or -wrongly, in most of the other'active ./ 1’ _= .The market became much quieter in the early af-ternpbn.'but did not lose ground and the close was active ahd'Btrong near the best of tlie day. It is plain that the situation'has now two sides to it, and tho traders? instead ttilooking for soft places to hammer were making earnest inquiries into the extent and location of tho short interest. The ease in exchange was a favorable factor and there was nothing in the money situation to cause anxiety.
’.‘ r '. The recovery -in the railroad stocks was general and large. Advances of three points or more were made in Union‘Pacific, Rock Island common, Louisville and Pennsylvania; and of .two points and upwards in Atchison. Baltimore & Ohio. SL Paul, Erie, Illinois Central, Missouri Pacific, Norfolk. Reading. Southern Railway and others, while hardly any active stock failed to recover at least a point.
■. The industrials shared tho general tendency with the best advances in General Electric, the minor steel properties and the railroad equipment stocks. The tractions rallied well with the best improvement in B. R. T.
GENERAL INFLUENCES
-- London must have traded in at least 60,000 shares and may perhaps have sold a little stock on balance. The foreign houses bought early and sold on the advance, which would indicate straight arbitrage transactions, without much position assumed by foreign operators. Thcr was a good deal of buying of the coal stocks for foreign account, and altogether tho purchases seamed a little more important than the sales. London appears to have been filled up with all sorts of wild rumors about the market on this side, but the absence of any substantiation for them has made tho foreign sentiment a little more confident.
As an example of how far the uneasiness on the position iu the street had spread, a wealthy resident of New York, who never speculates, consulted an expert on realizing his investments, with almost the same anxiety that would be shown by a holder of Steel preferred on a two point margin, llis list was a long one. the purchases had all been made through brokers of the highest cliiss. and the only security which was not n prior lien on an old established railroad was St. Paul preferred, and everything was paid for.
The number of sales of Steel bonds 14 sellers three days? was interesting as andicatng that some members of tho underwriting syndicate would pull out and expected.to have tlie bonds to deliver by Friday at latest. A good many members of the syndicate will let go, and, except tho managers, none of them kpows exactly how he stands. TTe has to take bonds at par. hut against this there is tho 4.% commission and some profit in the arbi-traging of the preferred stock against the bonds.
It is likely that there lias been a little personal •amity behind some bf tho selling in the market, nnd probably that in the Traction group in particular. The informal conference on Monday night probably had for one of its objects the subordination of feeling of personal resentment to the necessity for taking care of tho market for everybody’s sake.
Ronds showed a general improvement in sympathy with the rally in the stock list. The advance in Steel 5s. by far the most active issue, was encouraging, and other issues under/fire,-rectmtly, like Tobacco 4s and the convertibles, gainedj grquhd. Government bonds were steady and featureless. . 'Total shies, $4,958,000.
' The Standard Oil interest did as much to lift the market as any other interest,, and probably more. Some of its most important elements believe that the public must bo reassured, and are operating on that basis, as they consider the present condition does no good to them or anybody else.
The room never treated seriously the rumored resignation of President Cassatt of Pennsylvania and indeed traders very frankly said that they would not regard Standard Oil control in that property ns a bull argument.
It would be hardly fair to give up tlie name of the house for whom Lansburgh Bros, bought 10,000 shares of Pennsylvania, but it was certainly not Kuhn, Loeb & Co., as. everybody said. ■
The arbitrage houses bought stock overnight on the expectation of early strength in Loudon.
German houses had buying orders of Canadian Pacific.	*
INDUSTRIALS.
7 The rally in the railroad equipment issues was an encouraging feature, as they have been under rather heavy fire throughout the decline. People best likely to be well informed are still a good deal more bullish on Locomotive than on the ear stocks, and believe that the railroads have about filled their requirements in the matter of cars while their motive power in most cases is not up to moderate necessities.
Specialists in Steel soy that the common and the preferred have both been sold to a standstill. and are curious to see whether tlie short interest will be a factor in rallying the price where there is s’uch n tremendous volume of stock. They complain that both stocks suffer more than the street realizes from their very uu-wieldly character.	•
As both U. A. Harrison and Flower & Co. wore ■buyers of Amalgamated .Copper it looked as if for once the Lcwisolin and the Standard Oil interests were both of one mind.
It is understood that a block of 10.000 shares of Amalgamated Copper held in Boston changed hands by a private sale at 37 ou Monday, and went to 26 Broadway.
j ;	.	RAILWAYS.
ji. ’The easy recovery in General Electric was satisfactory as indicating about tho end of the liquidation in connection with the disturbed traction situation. The bld pool in B. R. T. is*probably thoroughly liquidated, and' two smaller but still important pools have been gotten out of tho way also. Boston operators, who are rather extensive holders of traction stocks^ bought freely.
. There was no appreciable diminution in tho demand for stocks in the loan crowd. The money rato was certainly stiffer, but everything could be had at 2% and a lot of. stock was loaning. There was a perceptibly increased demand for both Union Pacific and Atchison/ New York Central was in rather strong demand.
‘.The Gould brokqrs wero very good buyers during the Hwy of the stocks in which the late pool used to operate. Missouri Pacific in particular benefited by the buying, of this character. The general effect was good as confirming tho belief held in the room that tho Standard LOH interest was behind the recovery.
..Tho principal-purchases of Pennsylvania were said jfo:have‘been made,.by tho banking interest most closely {identified with the property. It is noticeable also that -of the heaviest sellers of Monday afternoon bought 10,000 shares while the early ^selling came from western sources and looked like short stock.
’• - B. R. T. acted better and the market for the stock Zs probably a wider one than it has been within the short memory of •Wall street. A buying order of considerable _ htity came through Boston, but there is reason to “ • ’ that it could be traced to an interest very closely identified with Manhattan.
^?'<The» advance in Pennsylvania in London was taken Ittjipdicating that tho sharp break in the stock on Mon-‘y. /afternoon, which did so much -to check the rally, ras At*leastrto some extent a bear drive. The controlled ' *	~ Ilk© Baltimore & Ohio and Norfolk showed somo
jpyittpathetiG improvement.	•
^y/i^.westtnn shorta: probably did most of the buying Jn^Atchison as a good deal of stock was returned which ^xadiheen borrowed by. that group.
^Beading'statement was a-material help to both fhir^Beadingjjesues/and the other hard coalers*
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.