FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: TWO FAILURES. A Bad Break and a Weak Close.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 6, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
TWO FAILURES.
A. Rad Ttrealc and a "Weak Close.
/The market	nervous and wtailv. although tliu
^London market was not much off and the foreign selling j-stas at no time a factor of importance. Some aggros->«ive support in tho U. S. Steel issues did something to *hold prices in tlie first hour, but the announcement ot ^Hhe failure of Sharp Ar Bryan, after steadying the trad-.•ing a little, had a very depressing effect, especially xu> ^liquidation in the most active railroad stocks was heavj and urgent. In the early nftemonu, the market was I about as weak ns it could be, considering that it nt no -time developed any of the condition* incidental to xl rpanic, and wherever there seemed to bo a short account to tenver or any Investment demand stock was supplied in /quantity. Another failure after two o'clock, that of ;Uurlbutr, Hatch A’ Co., put the seal on tho afternoon •depression and the close was w-ak and practically at tlu-dowest of the day. New* developments had not tlie slightest influence in the trading and weakness in. exchange, J which of course makes for the return of gold from Europe, passed unnoticed, while the slightly harder tono ot Xflll money could scarcely be considered a factor.
Whore ihe whole li-t. was moving one way it is sufficient to say that. Missouri Pacific lost nearly six points, ^Denver preferred 4. Southern Railway preferred -P/s, and •Wabash preferred 4’,2; anil declines of over two points •were recorded in St. Paul. Denver common, all the Erie issues. Texas Pacific, and Wabash common. With the exception of Canadian Pacific, Illinois Central. Mexican 'Central ami Heading common there was no railroad stock of any importance which did not lose n point nr more.
The T7. S. Steel h-uos showed remarkable strength and closed practically al the previous night's closing, but Consolidated Gas lost C points and the general industrial list was a point to throe points lower on the day. Outside of Metropolitan the tractions did not- act badly and 33. R. T. was noticeably well supported.
GENERAL INFLUENCES
It is said that some of the liquidation in the general list comes from the holders of the majority stock of a railroad controlled in Boston upon which all loans have been called.
Union.—-Buyers. Ilousman 2,000, Field 1,000, Pearl & Co. 2,000, La Montague; sellers: Day & Heaton.
V. S. Steel.—Buyers: Raborg <fc Mauriac, Thomas 2,500, 3Iuttou <fc Co. 8,000. Wasscnnann Bros. 5,000; sellers J Bugy & Hubbard 500. Homblower A: Weeks.
U. S. Steel pfd.—Buyers: Bogy & Hubbard 1.000; sellers: Van Emburgh <fc Atterbury.
C7. S. Realty.—Sellers: Minzcsheimer.
• U. S. Realty pfd.—Buyers: Lansburg Bros. 2,000, Taylor, Cutting Ar Co., Pearl & Co.; sellers: Eckstein.-Wallace, Muir & Co.
THE AVERAGES.
Tlie railroads at 91.03 are at. the lowest closing point since December 20. 1000, when they touched 91.51. They are 11.44 lower than the closing point of the panic day. May 0.1901.
The industrials nt 47.98 are at the lowest since April 30, 1898, when they were 46.00. At 47.9S they are 19.40 lower than the panic day. May 9. 1901.
Tho continued demand for gold from London by the continent will probably modify the Bank of England’s position later, bur there is no probability of any change in the bank rate today. Th<? return ought to be a strung one.
The room hoard with regret the failure of Sharp A-Bryan, and regarded it ns the result of th<- dcelim* iu •Virginia Carolina Chemical stock. The firm was one of the large promoters of the company, and th»- failure gives point to the liquidation recently shown in that connection.	’
Bonds wore naturally weak in sympathy with tin-downward tendency of the <t?ck market am! then.* wa-some heavy liquidation in Union Pncrifie convertible 4-. Steel 5s. Tobacco 4s. Burlington joint 4s and Oregon Short Line participating bn demoralized and declined 4 inent. issues were heavy bn
seemed some market short interest, and in certain amount of caution on tho part of I stocks, induced by the delicate financial situation, there .was some real demand in places. Canadian Pacific l<mn«*d nt a 1-32 premium, and Xew York Central wa* in demand at J.2r<« Less active stocks like Locomotive preferred, Illinois Central and Atchison preferred, were •Bearce and wanted below the general tale.
In spite of reports about the street that London had been si heavy seller of stocks, and especially Cnmidi-tn Pacific, it can be said positively that the realizing f«»r that source throughout the international list »li<i not 1 amount to more than 7.5')<» shares. A little* Canadian
•	Pacific was sold early, but nn»st of the selling there eatn° jfrom local traders. The foreign houses xilso sold Steel !common and preferred in fair quantity. London is {nervous on the state of this market, but is probably not
•	carrying much stock.
RAILWAYS.
1 The selling of Southern Railway was credited to ^western holders.
Tho bargain hunter might have been expected in .such a market, bur. did not make his appearance. Some ■ investment buying in Manhattan wxis the extent of the {purchase of this character. ’
Traders* attempts to hammer Colorado Southern preferred have not been successful in dislodging any long stock. It is very doubtful if the pool could bo affected by the general decline, in view of the strength of its members.
Although there hnd been very little western liqnida-|<ion except in Steel recently it developed in considerable I quantity during the day. Some of the interests xit one |time associated with St. Louis Ar Sxm Francisco were 'considerable sellers.
Canadinn Pacific was one of the strongest stocks on tho list in spite of an onslaught by tin? bear traders early lin the day. It was rumored that London was selling, but the arbitrage home.- were th** only lenders of the Hock, and a 1-32 premium was paid for what little could bo ipbtained by the shorts.
' People are beginning to doubt whether the strongest part of tho Gould interest has been in the market when /‘inside buying*’ has been reported ns the cause of strength ►in particular Gould stocks fur the last twelve months. The younger Goulds have probably been trying their hands again, but have 110 great successes Io their credit, "and unless the street does them n gruss injustice, they .have burned their fingers several times.	.
Missouri Pacific was very nearly the weakest of the active stocks. The brokers usually trading for the Gmil-J pool supported it on a scale down from par and made a determined effort to hold it at 95. The liquidation, h»w-ever, was obvious, and as soon ns it was found that only : a .small proportion of the selling represented short enneracts, tlie stock was allowed to take care of itself and ’declined heavily, disclosing nn extremely wenk bull position.
.	INPUSTUMLS.
P. »T. Goodhart's selling of Sugar was considered '-good and tho specialist was also entrusted with some Bellying; orders. • __________
?"’• "Xocol intervals connected with People's Gas gave ef-^fectivc slipport to that security, which did not act.badly Considering tho demoralized state of tho market. *
""U. ■ S. Realty statement had a mixed" reception,
but it looked as if some stock hnd been held over to sell on its publication.
The Standard Oil people aw credited with encouraging the decline in certain stocks, but s<*ein to have taken care of Ainalganwilcd Copper, and arc by no menus bearish on the copper situation.
E. Ar C. Randolph had a supporting order in Steel, but in spite of this and Hausman's large buying early, the liquidation was too heavy nnd no support could hold the stock at the price to which it was rallied in the early trading.
Tho marked weakness in American Sugar was accompanied by reports of stagnant trade? conditions nn l some realizing for lower Wall street. The stock is unquestionably much manipulated nnd tho usefulness of n lower level to Washington operators when the Cuban reciprocity matter conics up again should not be los*. sight of.
Consolidated Gns was one of the weakest features and in spite of its heavy decline of Tuesday had another bad break and lacked support from any of the houses usually prominent in operations in the stock. The traders say they can borrow it without difllculty nnd there seems to be something of a bear raid ngninst the new stock is*un. On the other hand, conservative floor traders are cautious of selling short in a stock so notoriously in Standard Oil hands,	. /
BUYERS AND SELLERS.
Amal.—Buyers: Langhnnr, Content 1,V(H>; $.ellcr»: C. IL Bonner Ar Co.
Sugar.—Buyer: Carlisle 1,000; sellers: Carlisle. Goodhart.
,	Atchison.—Sellers; Hah«*y A* Hudnut, Bugy A* Hub-
bard 500. Amory A: (0,
Unit Ar Ohio.— Buyers: Raborg A* Mauriac, Huusmun; seller: Ilousman.
B. R. 'I*.— Buyer: Lmighnur.
St. raid.—Buyers: J lalsted Ar Hodges, Bogy & Hubbard 1,000. Iltaisinmi. Jurgensen; sellers: Provost Bros., Bogy Ar fTubbard 1,(M«o. Ncwborg A’ Co. 1,000,
C<»n. G:w.—Chauncey A’ Co. bought and sold.
Erie.-—-Buyer*: Wharton, I loitsnnm 1.000, Mcr.nt.vrc Ar Marshall. Hudson 1,000, Raborg Ar Mauriac, C. W. MaeQuoid A' Co. 1.009. Mack A- Co. 1,000; sellers: Goldsmith. Wolf A- Co. 2.000. Bogy Hubbard (100.
.Erie 1st pfd.—Buyers: Wnsscrnniim Bros. 1,000, Eckstein 1,000; seller: Grirsel.
Ill Cent.—Seller: Morse A- Co 1.000.
Missouri Pacific,—J In vens 1,000, Blair A* Co,, Fields; sellers: Manning, Post A* Flagg, Oliver, Housmnn, Tailor At Robiipon 1.000.
N. Y. Cent.—Buyers: Sheldon Ar Co. 2,000; sellers: Bogy A' Hubbard 500. Bi-s<4l,
Rending.—Sellers: Alien, McGraw A Co. 1,000.
Sou. Ry,—Buyers: Bogy A’ Hubbard 1,000.
Sou. Pac.—Buyers: llerzfeld & Stem 1,000, Wallace; seller: Freeman 1,000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.