FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A GOOD RALLY. Some Concerted Support Early ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 7, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
iEEATURESOETHEMJVRKET.
.^?^<^ie.\opening. was “nervousf and irregular with not ■'^ucli-cexisolation to be r drawn from the erratic Ton-J^onjinaTket, especially as the arbitrage houses were sell-/ug’^stocks ' early. There was renewed pressure in scr-it-was not until some aggressive support '^n ^7* S- Steel that‘the market halted. It feet a little firmer about eleven o’clock, ^-before, noori there wns a. decidedly firmer tendency, ^kichdeveloped iiito a substantial, rally as the day pro-|gresse<L.., Tho last prices were not quite the best of the ^dajrbnt'they were very appreciably'higher than those ;of fths.-tfrevious night. Tlie sentiment showed considerable ^improvement in the afternoon, mid'there seemed-to be ?oyen ?a little. scattering commission ’ house buying from ithe’bolder spirits who sold out higher up. It is probable *blso' that there was some short interest by the conunis-’Sion houses tlxeinselves to protect themselves against >their.:own customers and this covering-vvas probably a ^factor. - The rather harder tendency of money hod less {effect than the weakness in exchange, although broadly lit may bo taken that tho two movements are part of the 'same'thing. ,
” ra^y in the railroad stocks wns very general and included all the active issues. Improvements of a point ror:m’oro were shown in Atchison common. Baltimore & ■Ohio, Canadian Pacific, the Erie issues. 31., K. & T., Pennsylvania. Bock Island common and preferred. South-•ern-Baihvny and Union Pacific, nnd of upwards of two ipoints 4n St. Paul. Denver common. Illinois Central, Touisyille. Missouri Pacific,. 31., K. it T. pfd., Yew York Central, ‘Southern Pacific and Wabash pfd.
• Tho industrials were equally firm with two point tadvances in Amalgamated Copjjcr; Car Foundry, and ’American Sugar and substantial gains in tlie U. S. Steel rissues. Consolidated Gas. and People’s Gas. The trac-:tions"'were irregular as B. B. T. advanced while 3fotro-jpolitan sold off.
.	'	CENEIt.tr. INFLUENCES
; Vermilye & Co. were fairly large sellers round the room.
.. '.The selling by Harris, Gates & Co.. C. T. Hudson, C. ^Minzeslieinicr and the western houses seemed to represent ■about tile last of the day’s liquidation.
■ Tt .was noticeable flint houses whoso names had been recklessly passed around the street were among the most considerable lenders of money, and in one case at. least returned some to the bank, being unable to find a borrower.
We learn that within a day or two a very large holder of'Gencntl Electric Consolidated Gas and Metropolitan Street Railway stocks sold out and that in the ease of at least one of these proixsrties the holdings were bought fortlic account of Standard Oil interests.
Tlie ruling rate ill the loan crowd was 2%. but there was not much account open and except for Canadian Pacific. which loaned at a small premium. Atchison common ■in demand nt 1%. and New York Central in demand nt there was no particular request for stocks and the short interest seemed to have been largely eliminated.
. The Bank of England’s return was a good one, but ■from-tile heavy loss of bullion it is evident that the continent is drawing freely on that center for gold, and it seems likely that we shall see stiffer money rates in Lon-domwithiii tlio present month. Tho fall demand for cur-, trency is just as regular there as it is hero, although naturally tit is nothing like so considerable a money ninrkot factor.	.
There was a very active day’s trading in bonds, and some substantial advances were recorded. Tobacco 4s ■weTe remarkably active ami strong, and -Union Pacific convertibles. Wabash J’s and Mexican Central incomes gained ground materially. Steel 5* were noticeably firm. There was a better demand for the Rock Island issues. Government bonds were rather heavy, but net particularly active. Total sales. $5,103,000.	'
At noon the market, gnvo better evidence of concerted support than it has done this week so far. There, ihas been a general return of tho more important Wall • street personalities to town mid something like an tn-formal conference was held on Wednesday night ami .after the opening of the market. This involved a close ■ scrutiny of various bunks and trust companies and o£ ■course gave a fairly clear idc.-i of the position of tlie ilarge houses. There is still admitted to bo some liquidation but the feeling is very evidently less nervous.
London was a seller early of something liko 10.000 shares, but in the half-hour after tho close of that mnrket 'bought at least as much stock, and foreign transactions •were about an even split. ' There wns arbitrage buying of Southern Pacific and Union Pacific, and some of the Steel stock sold on Wednesday was taken back. Tho principal -London interests have received very definite information ,on the real stale of the market here, nnd the sentiment on 1 tlie other sido isi much better than it wns. The international houses are understood to have satisfied themselves •as to the intrinsic strength of tho Wall street situation.
.	IlAlIAVAYS.
. . A western interest was selling Rending common in isonic quantity.	’’
.London was a buyer of Southern Pacific and Union jPacific about midday.
*■ Vermilyo .& Co.’s selling was said to l>o for the fGould interest, which is not bullish nt present.	”
■ ■' The underwriting syndicate has been able so far to sell about $4,000,000 of tlie $20,000,000 Louisville & Nashville .five-twenties issued in April.
;■■ London was a seller of Baltimore & Ohio, and there ;is some reason to think that a weak New York account was liquidated in tho London market.	'
• Brooklyn Rapid Transit for the second limo in tho Srecent past rallied easily after showing strong evidence of ^accumulation between 41 nnd 42. Specialists think the i.buying good and liavo not seen any liquidation of serious ^importance.
1*4: '?’?■ ’	•	•
■_ A manifestly stupid rumor wus current to tlie effect , '_'r ' .Harris, Giites & Co. had sold.a block of Louisville & . ,’T-’ -T-Ho stock to-the Belmont interest. The official do-■niaLwas hardly necessary, but there has been sonic selling df;fLoiiiavill(j,recently in the open mnrket for western ac-unt.	•,. . ■ '	, -	*
■i	'	■ ■
^^/Thc Erio issues held remarkably well nnd somebodv fa:£un<iuestionably holding the bn# for Eric seconds. jThCTo^ifl inoyrtjaaori why there should not bo a dividend _ ’in on them this yenr, nnd in a more normal Ssnarkct itho.street could not have failed to notice the weH?informe<l charnoter of tho buyiag.
^^irho iupportlnff orders in tlw ‘Harriman stocks; but Xmrti(n>lArly.;Soiitliem Pacific, were directly itruceablo to tfiffiijmirollinff interest;in thosc^propertioH. The Standard Oilliuppprt .in tho niflrkct was.lcM gonoral and that oi
the Morgan interest was mostly in the Steel stoehs. but the combined effect was unquestionably the cause iff the rally.	'	,
Canadian Pacific hold well throughout and the ^lon-treal section of the pool in it regards tho.situation with a good deal of equanimity. They say that the professional attack here lias been a failure and that stock can only be borrowed with their consent. They arc naturally not anxious to bid up on the shorts in such a market, but do not believe that tliorc has been any foreign liquidation worth mentioning.
’	INDUSTRIALS. ■
.Local interests associated with the company wore giving some support to People's Gas.
T11O rumor that the Standard Oil interest had taken over the United Copper Company was not treated seriously by anybody in tha least degree likely to knpw the facts of the case.
’ Virginin-Ciirolinn Chemical hold its rally well nn.l people in best,position to know the facta believe thut its condition is essentially sound. The ,recent buying haw been for powerful southern interests. ; '
I ho Morgan brokers, and especially Hausman, gave remarkably good support to IT. S. Steel. Tin- foreign houses say thut only u vary limited amount of the foreign holdings have come out on the decline.
J lie -support in Amalgamated Copper Im considered good nnd it U known that the Standard Oil people have added to their holdings in the recent past, Trade con* ditions «rc reported a* exceptionally satixfnetory in well* informed quartern.
Virginia Chemical is understood to have been successful in tho thinncing it undertook. Its necessities wore perfectly legitimate and people interested in tho company arc very sore nt the unfair construction put upon their borrowing.
The clique behind such properties ns Metropolitan .Securities mid interested eiitensivoly in other traction properties nnd Consolidated Gns has probably liad to a<l-just itself to market conditions, in viow of its extonsive commitments, but is understood to linvo the traction situation well in hand nnd .is prepared to support Metropolitan and other stocks on-any attack".
“!<mi ° ’tocks to;3.o’clock, .078,S00;shares..
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.