FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CONTINUED DEPRESSION. Stocks Decline All
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Oct 9, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
MATURES OF THE MARKET.
CONTINUED DEPRESSION.
i-Decline AH Round with Steel and Amalgamated , . . Copper the Weakest Features. .. i -
The London market was not particularly encouraging
and southern
"and General El
milch. whili
lr»«t a point
decline hi Metropolitrai
\lchison and Union Pacific.
Foreign houses reported Lon-
s Locks 111
the foreign
General Electric and
development was du
Wormscr and the traders wen* the buyers of Union
demand for it, in the loan crowd.
considerable extent.
Traders probably sold Canadian Pacino on the new
position among the usual Standard Oil brokers to protect
the indifferent fallowing in the annual report.
referred, not improbably for the bond underwriters, omeof the stock came from London
house1
> arrive
■ :ano sold quit’
.There was n
don operators
market and sc-ntiinciit almost nervous.
London was the henviest seller of Atchison common
in’the early trading.
Eloor traders did not think very much of the selhn
of St. Paul, and believed that the western short interest
The development of weakness in Smelters in the early
’JUissou n Piic iit*
j Southern 1 ‘••i.-ifi
anvicos from London say that on September
m tlv consol market had
It was thought that there was some further selling
to be helped
■understood tn
interest.
•controlled by a strong
Tho weakness in American lelephone was, of course
It was noticeable that Western
•1 Union was weak also, from winch traders inferred that
i of Alton common.
features
showed some serious declines
Xtnalgamntcd Copper lost
The heaviest trading in bonds was in TT. S. Steel 5s
■fWhich wero under severe pressure throughout and closed
Metropolitan
nnd Metropolitan
Securities was one of th
t resumption of liquidation in
and traders said after hours that they had no difficulty
lowest.
the really active railroad stocks lost ground,
Probablv some people in the street did not under-
stand the .Kock Island bond plan
idjourmnent of the
Otherwise, tho movement seemed to be sympa-.
§?was 'short stock and that the market consequently was
The natutal but possibly extravagant infer*
£ence that other corporations might have a similar genesis ^hept the public out of the market, and ensured the com-
mission houses a plentiful supply of selling orders. The
»good -railroad stocks acted better than anything else, and
it is noteworthy that it is a source of strength in the
.present temjier of the market to a railroad stock when
the property is .not
pin-getting stocks back.
such representative
•’ticularly henvj
of Kansas City Southern for Amsterdam account
trading was to some extent sympathetic with tho decline
In. Amalgamated Copper.
tit-is obliged to take any independent stock coining to
market, to protect its own position.
against the company in
jonfc considerable holder hurt elsewhere was waiting for
^Buch an opportunity to market, his stock.
-rweak. The tone was depressed with fractional losses in ’iRock Island 4s, Tobacco 4s and Union Pacific convert-’^IbleB. Government bonds were steady without feature of
ij-Interest. Total sales $3,552,000.
A good deni of Amalgamated Copper was sold for ^Boston account, and the selling of Sugar probably came Sfrom the same quarter. Tho Standard Oil brokers were
records. The talk of a receivership was officially contradicted. The selling looked good.
J. S. Baclie & Co. and II. Content did help Amalgamated Copper, but that stock spond to the Bio Tinto dividend.
something to failed to re-
by Day .t
The selling of Amalgamated Copper w . Adams was considered good as they get credit for doing some Standard Oil business.
■ The people who were active on the bear side in Amalgamated Copper are offering the dividend for 1901 at ' * -
1^4%.
ill
.Tossup Lamont were credited with selling orders a considerable quantity of Amalgamated Copper.
&
Baltimore sent some selling orders in Tennessee Coal Iron.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.