FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: INDUSTRIALS ACTIVE. Sugar and Copper Advance ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 3, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4...... , ...
WWATURES OF THE MARKET.
INDUSTRIALS ACTIVE.
yg>fit<par and Copper Advance Without Stimulating Much ‘	. Movement in RaOe. .	'
/ The opening -was fairly firm in sympathy with the ^strength shown in London and the easy improvement of ^tihe-previous day. Trading was not all one way, as there zrWaa'a very substantial volume of profit taking, and a considerable section of the traders were testing the strength ^bf the advance by short sales. The amount of manipula-gition apparent, especially in the forenoon, made the ad-|f^vance not altogether convincing. There was some hesita-^Ttaon at midday and a few of the more active railroad ££stocks eased off, but in the early afternoon a vigorous ^.'/movement in Amalgamated Copper and American Sugar, /'■'which had both been a little uncertain early, attracted most of the speculative attention of the room. This move-• iment was continued up to the close and the last quotations were firm for the railroad list, with more advances than declines, and conspicuously strong for tho industrials. ■'Honey was. stiff throughout and demand sterling con-r- tinued at a point where gold could be imported if any :’5\could be obtained. There was some evidence of a diver-/-Bion of speculation to cotton, but otherwise that staple ?"lxad no influence upon the day’s transactions.
</ .’ Among the railroad issues the best advance for an < active stock was in Reading of over a point, but Union $:-Eacific pfd. and Denver common both gained more. Eennsylvania and its allied stocks were rather inclined to sell off and there w less confidence shown in the grangers and Pacifies. The changes were merely fractional, /.with small advances preponderating.	*
American Sugar was the most active of the indus. trials and gained 3^ points, wliile*thc copper stocks and Smelters were conspicuously strong. U. S. Steel pfd. was strong and some of the minor industrials like Colorado ‘Fuel were worked up without difficulty. B. R. T. was tli<? firmest and most active of tho tractions.
-- Steel pfdL showed considerable animation of strength early in the day and it is. noticeable 'thatAhouses with Pittsburg connections have heen picking up a little stock. The beat informed trade interests think that we have now seen .the extent of the reduction in prices and although the earnings for November will show badly. It is thought that the worst is known.
The strength in such stocks as General Electric, Air Brake and Westinghouse arises in some measure from the fact that they are paying very much less for raw material, and will be under no necessity to reduce the price of their own products. In the matter of steel alone the saving is very large.	•
•The advance in Colorado Fuel was not so imposing as it looked. The buying order appeared to be at the market and everybody knows there is very little stock in the street. ’ Only 1,000 shares were traded in. *
Amalgamated Copper seemed to run into a fair supply of long stock in the neighborhood of 40, although T. W. Lawson of Boston published a bull letter during the day;
GENERAL INFLUENCES
London was not so extensive a trader as in the recent k past, but bought 35,000 shares and suit! very little. T*rac-tically all the arbitrage business wasjinished in the first hour. London operators have not changed their view and are still bullish, but seem to be content to stand on the fairly large long position now open for the other side. The general improvement in the Loudon market is understood to have had a substantial basis, and it is thought • .that Faris operators who have been working there on the bear side nnd arc In particular responsible for a good many disquieting rumors on the foreign political situation were forced to cover.
Ono advice from London alleged that the strength in British consols was due to ‘‘window-dressing” by the banks far the end of the year. It looks as if the correspondent or his editor here did not know what “window-dressing” was. It certainly doos not involve the purchase of consols, ns they cannot bo used in * way that U. S. government bonds can. and all can find much more remunerative investments.
the same the Lnnks
was much
The demand for stocks in the loan crowd better than on the previous day and seemed to indicate that the day’s sollincr had included th*' reopening of bent > accounts ns well as profit-taking. The general rate was 6 ‘to 6^2%. but Pennsylvania loaned mostly below 6%, while Now York Central and Canadian Pacific were wanted at	nnd Southern Railway pfd. at 5%. The
demand seemed to bo well scattered.
There is apparently no change of nny advance in the ; Bank of England rate although some local demand for money makes a higher rate possible in Berlin.' This, however, will be merely a temporary local influence. an<Iw . ;all advices from London indicate that the season of real demand there is practically over.
There was a fairly active day's trading in bonds, , mostly in Steel 5s nnd Rock Island 4s, but there was some improvement in Tobacco 4s and Colorado Fuel 5s were specially strong. Wabash Bs eased off a little. Government bonds were steady and a shade harder. Total sales $3,154,000.
: Harris, Gates <fc Co. sa.v ‘‘the real force behind the present movement is believed to Be pure manipulation in 'which the large commission houses are taking an active part. Since the technical position of the market is sonic* what weaker a moderate reaction is expected.”
Two houses sometimes associated with Standard Oil operations were thought to have given out selling orders . early in the day, although one of them, at least, emphat-. ically denied the position, so implied.
The floor market for bonds was reported better and there is an improving inquiry over the counter, although in both cases business is very dull.
Ellingwood & Cunningham have been picking up Erie seconds in the recent past. The buying is considered good.
W. B. Oliver was about the most aggressive buyer of stocks among the active traders, but sold copper.
'.	' Ono of the money brokers loaned $1,000,000 up to the
'• .end of 1904 on government bonds nt 4%%.
?	RAILWAYS.
'■ It is still claimed that the Moore brothers and thetr ’ friends arc to some extent a factor in the market, and it '. is said that the buying orders in Rock Island camo from / that source. The evidence on the point was not very con-£ -clnsive. The people who know them best say that Rock fIsland will follow the market rather than lead it.
h-London gave some early impetus to Louisville, fol-^.lowing the advance in the stock on tho other side. The yjbest information does not indicate any change in the ^dividend, but a declaration on Chattanooga, will, of “^course, show well in the Louisville report.
Although some of the buying in Amalgamated Cop-jfcper came through bouses who occasionally deal for copper ^interests, it was thought there was some good selling and gthebest information seems to indicate that the metal is particularly strong at 12c.	.
’ There xs some reason to think that the Hoffman
S^Honse crowd which lias hitherto been the principal bull &&£fluence in the tractions, has been taking profits quietb fein B. B. T. and Metropolitan. ’	*4
3^r;/The strength in New York Central was probably ilue ^tcrabetter understanding of the Harlem litigation, which 'Steams to be by no means’ so serious as sensational reports (KSwmfld have indicated. ‘
>Tho buying of B. R. T. was by people who are in a
'position to know the earnings, which arc making a rc-Onarkablc showing by all accounts.
' "'o.i / .
^^Pennsylvania is noticeably more plentiful in the loan
* L and seemed to he rather well sold.-—•
-----------------------
‘ INDUSTRIALS.	,	■
J^ZThe strength tfn Smelters is based not merely upon jffir^parted dividend this month, but also on the char-the buying. It is easy to -find people who can-nSBAiuidentand why a non-dividend paying industrial SEould stand at .such figures, but the street has not yet ~~ iiopwed where the stock goes to-. Thero is certainly S^little of it about even allowing for what the street ^2|bLrit^holds-	''	. ■
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.