FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A SERIOUS DECLINE. Stocks Open Weak and Sell ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 13, 1904;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.............
When tlie rest-oftho znarkofwas woak Mddcan Cen-actea'v<«'y^<al-" Some of tho St. Louis-<fc SanBran-cisco -following;sbld';out at;the beginning of-last: week after huUing'tho atock^from 10 up. - They are nowbuy-iug-'back- . There.,is.<some.roasbn .for thinking that ’up' : wards ofAO.OOOshares were taken for one operator alone ro und about the present ! eve].	i	.
- -Norfolk/ rt; ^Western.'did hot break very badly, al thoughtooanuchimp ortaneo should not bo ascribed to the 'rumora of a Lohdon short interest against options ‘sold- . The'.London option dqalcrs invarinbly operate at the time of sellingthc call and have always proved to be well protected. •.	-/z \	... '	■■ ..	. .
It wus ssid that-part of the weakness in Union Pacific was due-to a/beliefthat the Northern Securities-case would go ugainsi it. Nobody believes that the decision is known, and some rather shrewd judges think that alternative, plans have been prepnred tozneet any decision. Atchison held well, and, according to traders,.there is a good market for any stock sold. The bull account in it has not 'been/oyeynytended.	:	' •'
•FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A SERIOUS DECLINE.
Slocks Open Weak anil Sell Off Throughout the llay Heavy Liquidation.
on
Evory-
At the opening. the traders thought the market was altogether too bad to be true. Stocks were generally lower to the extent of a point or more. The threat of a new Lawson raid was the ostensible reason, which the anove-ment in Amalgamated Copper throughout the day to some extent corroborated. N<> real disposition to rally was shown m the first hour. Stocks appeared to lie coining from people who had bought on the break last week and in the subsequent rally. This could hardly have been called realizing of stock bought to protect, but it was effectively the same so far as the market was concerned. After hardening slightly before midday the market sold off and the second decline was worse tlmnvthe first'. The appearance of heavy mntchcd orders at the lower levels gave it a somewhat artificial east but for all that the liquidation was heavy and genuine. The heaviest selling apparently was for people who had weathered last week's storm. The commission houses did not scent to have so much to sell as the active traders. It seems tolerably certain tliat a number of large cliques have been caught wit.i a good deal of stock. One plausible explanation of the market movement is that the big interests are out and that the traders have failed to place the stock they bought from them with the public. A few trnders’ shorts-covered at the close made very little difference and the last prices were very pearly ihe wnrst'of the day.
Among the railroad stocks; the smallest d'.-clines wer-of more than two points while St. Paul. Louisville and le=s active issues lost five points mid upwards. I-ivei-y-t.nng was moving tlie same way with the greatest activity in Union Pacitic. Heading mid Pennsylvania. These were all particularly weak. Amalgamated Copper lost nearlv ten points and thcindustrial list general was eotisiderablv demorahzed. Sugar, Smelters mid the IT. S. Steel issues were front three to four points below Saturday's close. Ihe tractions shared the genera] tendency with a fiv--point, decline in B. lb. T.	“
OENEBAL INFLUENCES
On the early break it hnd been expected thatj.ondon would hnve bought a little stock, but that market seemed beared, mid sold off even faster than ours. Arbitrage houses traded late, and estimates of their transactions sre merely approximate. They probably sold 00,000 shares on balance. Arbitrage business was difficult, as price movements were very erratic. The cable service was fairly good, but some substantial losses were made in both markets. Soles wore fnirly well distributed throughout the international list.
There is nothing of the public indifference to Cassandra nr Jhramli for T. AV. Lawson. llis prophecies arc at IMist listened to mid may bo supposed to have some ef-Ject.- Hero is the last deliverance. Tt is n little crvptic but quite in his bccl manner.	*	*
“To-day Inis demonstrated to the world tlint the people are awakening, but wait until they are wide uwuko J hen tlie world will witness a spectacle never before seen.’ 1 snid to you last week only a fool would fire his hrnvi-est guns first. I now say to you. only a fool would fire h:s nenrie.Mt g?tiK second.**
Jules S. Baclie says: “I think tlie last Lawson shot has about spent its force. The public will gradually get used to the nervous shocks attendant upon his snlutarv but drastic effo-ts to prevent overspeculation. The bnv-:ng is hotter tlinr. the selling, and I ntn advising such as can stand the shrieks of the Lawson bombs to buv stocks.	•
Trading in bonds was chiedy noteworthy for the de-■d'ne '» the issues with a speculative side to them. Steel 5s Lmon I acitie convertibles. Consolidated (.las convertibles nnd the tobacco issues were very weak. Govcrn-•™*nt	opH*euib' without quotable change. Total
The best judges of market conditions believo that the weak openm-' wna a direct result of overdoing a rally be.ore outside confidence was restored. Commission nouses have bought very little for thoir customers outside Thursday barR,*'n huntinK Purchases on Wednesday and It was thought, that the western oporators threw over some stock, but. they were not a considerable factor. r loor traders do not bohevo they hnve hnd time to nccu-thr'r"10 M,y m’”' twhilc tT,ey woro Probably pretty thoroughly sold out in the course of tho break last week .1 iHp,t0 tlJe heavy	>n stocks the demand
in tlie loan crowd wn« scattering and light. The^ten-Th<1lro"wnW""f3/'’ int wI",011 oroiythimr was freely offered, mon	frir «<•«* ^laud and Steel com-
mon. Most of the other stocks were hard to loan.
It was sqid that 15,000 shares of Union Pacific and th’"’““I c,"".'rt,t‘v °.f. K'	preferred sold Ipr one of
& Company, *W “d nK	wn" for Charles G. Gates
Amalgamated Copper, Union Pacific, .*"<1 leather common, made Up 2,^ f th? <iny * transactions of over 2,000,000 shares mivl‘h® flftcrnoon in Northern So-rarhaM th°	very little effect on tho floor,
perhaps because traders wore too much depressed to care, shaw? *?*	, that Boston sold about 100,000
bUt mn!n,y in AmaUatnatod CM>-
C.-G. Gates de Co. were credited with sales of 00,000
! industrials. ■
About the best of the buying of Steel preferred on the breakwas. by G. B.JIopkins & Co., who took 10,000 shares. Thcselling came ifrom a house sometimes associated with Morgan operations, especially when protection for the market is necessary. The same house, however, might possibly have been selling for London.
| An attempt to distribute T. C. & I. and Colorado Fuel, both probably held in the snmo quarter and carried over the bad break of last week, met with discouraging results in the early trading. It looked as if some of these selling orders were withdrawn for lack of a'good murket.	’	'
U. S .Steel issues were the storm center.and if there were any definite raids on the market, they were the stocks chosen for special attack. Considering how much stock had been realized in the break of last week, there was a surprisingly good supply of stop-loss orders.
Amalgamated Copper broke badly at the opening on some selling from Boston and a few stop orders, caught after the first point decline. A further raid is talked of, and the advance in copper stocks in London had no influence in sustaining confidence.
. Consolidated Gas had a severe break on the upset in its agreement with the city. Tlie attitude of Comptroller Grout was a complete surprise and caused some vigorous selling, especially from the houses with political con-.ncctions.
Traders think the bull account in U. S. Leather common will be shaken out a little more before the new Tinuiicinpr conics to tlie front ngruin.
At the lower levels some heavy matched orders made their appearance in Amalgamated Copper.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.