FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A BAD BREAK. Stocks Open Nervous and Decline ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 8, 1904;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.......
■	■	• .■	■	BAILWAVS.	.	■
Union Pacific again, showed, a heavy tone and is exercising a good -deal of indirect influence on'the general railroad list. It 5s noteworthy that the Harriman following in Ixmdon sold orit some time ago, and has not so far repurchased'its stock. Southern Pacific sympathized perhaps because the market believes that Mr. Keene is out of his long stock. ■ ' .
The Gates following was reported to be throwing over Missouri Pacific in iquantity. There was very little support from, the Gould brokers, who have not been active on the bull side.	■
Tlie Gates following did as much as anybody to rally the market after the opening. They gave aggressive support to Reacting and were thought to have been good buyers of Eric os well.
FEATURES . OF THE MARKET.
.1 BAD BTiEAK.
*Sfoe7.‘« Opf'ii Nervous and JlccHnc Jicfpidlf, Ctosint] "H With 11 Small Jiallii.
At tlie opening the mnrket was lower and perceptibly weak iu places. Amalgamated Copper was the first stock to feel pressure, while the higher Loudon was disregarded. A few caught at first, and traders were beat side. Prices rallied n little from that point the declines were geueral. and the most that could be said was that, some stocks were weaker than Other.-. The bear campaign in Amalgamated Copper. if tin principal figure in il is not acting under orders from his ostensible enemies, was brilliantly successful; but probably the. unostentatious calling of a few loans early iu tlu- day. and the previous night’s meeting of railtoad presidents, presumably to disapprove of an extension of the powers of tlie Interstate Commerce Commission, were the real factors in the day’s decline. Such calling of loans of course provides funds to support the market, and throughout the day there was good evidence that stocks were not being allowed to get out of hand. There was a -'pegging" of stoeks’all round, and particularly the issues supposed 1o reflect the sentiments of the greater blinking interests. In spite of this, the market was evidently permitted to find its level by the shortest way, and in spite of some little rally in the late afternoon, the close was weak and only very slightly ----------....
prices of the day.	.
to be the principal sufferers, as each new point eaught stop orders iu quantity. -Money did not us much as might have been expected.
Among the railroad stocks, declines of less
range of prices from slop-loss orders were act ive, mostly on the in tlie first hour, but
above the lowest The semi-professional element seemed decline harden
than a point wore exceptional, while Northwest. Illinois Central mid I’liion Pacific lost over three points-. B. A- O.. Pennsylvania. Missouri .Pacilio. Heading. Southern Pacific and others less active two points or more. Every active group was more or less affected.
The most, serious declines were in the industrial stocks, where Amalgamated lost S points. Sugar and Colorado Tuel <> points or move, and Smelters, Tennessee Corl, United S-.ates Sleel issues, and other representative stocks from two to four points. The minor industrials acted rn'her well in comparison. The tractions were weak with the most serious pressure in D. It. T.
INDUSTRIALS.	.
Sugar probably suffered severely because it has been an especial bull favorite in Boston. With all the talk about the Lawson influence it would be hard to say that any other stock was appreciably affected by the break in Amalgamated Copper. The decline there, of course, had some influence but it is doubtful if it was seriously considered after the downward movement began elsewhere.
• The source of the raid in Amalgamated Copper at the opening was made additionally obvious by the first quotations from Boston, which showed the stock had sold there at 75 and 74%, as against 77 and 76 here. The mnrket seems to show that some weak holders have been scared by the Lawson campaign.
After a moment’s opening hesitation the Leather stocks developed renewed strength. The best explanation of the move in U. S. Leather is that the street is trying to secure a majority of the preferred stock to facilitate new financing. Indications are that some of the swamp holdings have been sold.
The support from the Morgan brokers, which appeared in U. S. Steel m tlie early trading, was apparently withdrawn before midday. There was a good deal of fori ign selling in both common and preferred, and the specialists seemed to have some stop-loss orders after the preferred sold below 93.
Some of the traders on tlie floor think that 26 Broadway distributed a lot of stock in the past two days. They are even inclined to doubt if the Standard Oil following is really long of much Amalgamated Copper.
Tt is said that a pool, of which Augustus Ileiuze was the principal member, sold its Amalgamated Copper over SO and suspected at the time that the Standard Oil following were also supplying tlie stock.
Brokers sometimes acting for the Lewisohns were reported buyers of 10.000 shares of Amalgamated on the first break.	.
GENERAL INFLUENCES
It would bo fair to estimate the trading fo: foreign account at F.O.iMJO shares, of which IIO.UOU or more were Stiles. 'Ihere was a little buying nr the opening, but on the early rally foreign houses turned round and sold U. S. Steel. Southern Pacific. Brie. Heading and a number of other stocks ryeeutly active in London. There was a little buying on the midday break, but nothing of much consequence. The cheek to our market was regarded quite seriously mi the curb iu London and trading there was nervous mid .narrow. Arbitrage houses suffered throughout the morning from delays in the cable service.
Among the active and recently bullish houses, comment is conservative at tho best, and bearish in places. Hick Bros, say: “Support, is still forthcoming when tlie market weakens, but il looks ns though a distribution of speculative lines is going on continually. We believe that this irregularity will continue and we would advise against purchases on strong spots. Somewhat lower prices are not unlikely.'’
In spite of the severe break in stocks and tlie natural expectation that some short interest would lie shown in tile loan crowd slocks there were not merely freely offered but won- actually pressing. The bear account hud evidently not developed to anything like vulnerable proportions while Llio bull account is clearly still large.
The Hoffman House crowd is very bearish mid probably put out a heavy lino of shorts near the top. One of the lenders of that clique said that he thought there was support in the Harriman and Morgan stocks, but did not believe that 26 Broadway was disappointed or surprised nt the break in the mnrket.
There is some reason for saying that n number of loans were culled by the more important banks in the forenoon. It was noteworthy that call money did not harden. It is a fair conjecture that tlie calling of these loans put certain of tho tinancinl interests in a position to afferd support to the nuirkct.
There is good reason for thinking that tlie best'advertised section of the western crowd 1ms been the principal sufferer in the decline. Tliej» were lu-nvily long nt the top of Heading. Louisville, Brie, Missouri Pacific mid probably Amalgamated Popper. They ware sellers ull round the room.
It is said that die Kock Island people are by no menus bullish on the "oncrnl situation. D. G. Heid is To-ported to have taken the short side of the market, especially in the granger stocks mill Pucific. while other prominent members of the same act uro conservative or bearish.
• Trudlug in bonds was in fairly large volume end In such issues ns Union Pacific convertibles. Steel 5s. Rock Island 4s, mid the Tobacco issues the general weak tone of the nuirkct was reflected. Government bonds were steady without mmtnlilv change. Total sales $7,815,000.
The second decline iti the market was a good deal more like the real thing than tho first one. Bloor traders who executed supporting orders from western sources zoportod that they were netting stock for too easily.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.