FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: INCREASING ACTIVITY AND STRENGTH. A ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 16, 1904;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
^^ar'cwsAsnf-a activity and strength.
M^»ce*trfiil l)rwe al ilu BiorU with Some Increase in V .<■’-	Public Interest.	'	'
market opened firm, encouraged by marked ^■lieugth in London, and helped by a resumption of ag-& ream» ci buying from the traders and probably some of bttis.3arger financial interests. The movement was ma-iterially assisted .by.the purchases for foreign account, ;-but "up to midday, although the tone was firm, there had lheen no very general movement, to cover' shorts, and ^trading became quite dull. Tn the early afternoon, how-
‘ever, some aggressive buying developed in the Erie is-WuaK, and especially in -the common stock, encouraging a -resumption of traders’ buying elsewhere, which this time was successful in forcing the covering of large volume of ‘'short stock,' which is credibly reported to have been put lout some months ago. The traders’ short interfest has never been very much of a factor, but the day’s move-Iment showed that the professionals were right in supposing that there was an underlying bear account of Some ‘extent. The movement was general and encouraging in ’several ways, and particularly in the greater activity 'shown by the commission, houses. Por the moment, at ‘any rate, London’s deduction from the Northern Securities decision that relief from suspense was itself a bull argument proved to have been the right one. The close was strong and near the best of the day.
. Among the railroad stocks, Lackawanna advanced 13 points and the Erie issues. Atcliison, B. & O-. St. Paul, Missouri Pacific, Southern Pacific and Union Pacific [from two to three points. Practically every active TailToad issue gained ground on tlie day and improvements of a point or more were the rule.
The industrials shared the general tendency, with •tho principal gains in Copper. Sugar, Smelters, the Gas stocks and Steel preferred. The tractions were generally strong, with the principal advance in Metropolitan.
tbe -evidence toithatefiect was notbahehiBive.*■.•4So;Isrjias' thageneral list -was concerned,, theltadkefrileriiitarest; nnriino to Tinrc done less to advance the inaxket than ahy' other.	•	'	• '
. The-early strength in U. S. Steel Was a consequence of the advance in thc price of steel bars and the improv-: ing trade • conditions -indicated in advices from Pittsburg and other centers. There seems to be a fair short interest in ihe stock.	.
Darr, Duke & Moore, who do a good deal of Pittsburg business, sold Steel pfd.
GENERAL ^StFLtTENCES
. Xondon was an important factor in the morning trading and probably took at least 30,000 shares. There is very little question that this buying was largely on orders originally sent from this side. There was, however, a certain amount of buying, particularly in Southern Pacific, which represented tlie covering of a foreign short position. Trading was very largely of an arbitrage character and the foreign houses were not able to draw much inference from it.	■
London was an early buyer of Atchison and Union Pacific and also of Southern Pacific to a moderate extent. The opinion among the foreign houses is that London attaches much less importance to the Northern Securities decision than we do. Operators there were never particularly fond of consolidations and think they see intrinsic value in tlie constituent parts of Northern Securities whatever happens to the merger.	■
There was a very noticeable reduction in the borrowing demand. There was some, inquiry for Pennsylvania and B. & O. at 112%. and a little Erie. St. Paul and Atchison loaned, but. n good many stocks were returned, which had been borrowed since last September or even longer. Everything was fTCely offered and the ruling rate was IV2 and
There was a fairly active day’s trading in bonds with considerable strength shown in speculative issues like Pock Island 4’s. Tobacco 4’s. Steel -Vs olid Wabash B’s. Union Pacific convertibles acted very well. Government bonds were steady nnd inactive. Total sales $1.775.000.
The street did not take tlie alleged Canadian Securities Co. very seriously. Traders thought the merger had (plenty of friends at present, but such an evasion of the court’s ’ decision would unite public opinion against llr. Mill and his friends.
H. A. Harrison dr Co. were buyers of Erie, Union pacific and B. <fe O. and other stocks around tlie room. They sometimes do a little Standard Oil business nnd are credited with a connection with copper trade interests.
The Hoffman House crowd has taken the long side of the market, after hesitating a good deal on Monday. iSome of the members of that clique were thought to have doubled up on Tuesday afternoon's advance.
C. G. Gates Co. were said to have been prominent in the enrly buying and were credited with an attempt to make a following on tho bull side in some of the active railroad issues.
Worniser Lid for stocks round the room in tlie early trading.
RAILWAYS.
A. A. Housman was about the most conspicuous buyer in the early trading. He. sometimes executes Morgan business and as some of liis friends were buyers in London before the opening tlie inference was that the Morgan interest was supporting. The Housman buying of Pennsylvania, however, might have represented stock •old last Thursday.
Hallgartcn. & Co. were credited with starting the advance in Eric. The floor traders thought tlie advance was natural and it was noticeable tliat the semi-professional element in the brokers’ officers was following tlie advance. The stoek was always a popular favorite and the commission houses were carrying it long after they had sold everything else.
It was said that Mr. Keene’s hand could be traced in decent operations in Metropolitan. There has. however, been no demand for stock in the loan crowd and tlie mar-let .indications certainly do not point to anything like bear selling.
Alton common was heavy and tho street is curious to know what Mr. Hawley will do with the property as the supreme court decision in tho Northern Securities case puts ownership by Illinois Central out of the question.
The story ihat^Erie was to be SkTholding company for Northern Pacific appealed to the street’s sense of 'humor, but the short interest disclosed by the determined 'bidding of the Morgan brokers was surprisingly large.
■ The street was hopeful that the vote of the 'soft coal .miners 'would, be for peace and traders bought B. & O. ion;the,■ strength of it, covering shorts in Pennsylvania at the same time.
Wasaermann Bros, executed the very limited buying orders which advanced Lackawanna. The marking up of Jiigh priced investment stocks was rather a feature.
• .	■ It was thought that a considerable bear account in.
'.Southern Pacific was disclosed in London and traders were .inclined to bid for the stock.
/The early strength in B. B- T. was on the demand ■ofoc#the stock in the loan crowd as indicating a short ■‘interest.	_______'	■	.	. -
>The Gould brokers wore said to have bought a little Miseburi Pacific and Wabash B’s.
,	' ptiis said that the special, selling of Metropolitan is
overuind will not be resumed.	'
.WBUBHUAML.
•it was-said .that Standard Oil brokers had . in 'tho b^xying af AmalgaixiBted'Ooppcr
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.