FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: AN AFTERNOON ADVANCE. Stocks Open Well and ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 17, 1904;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
.t.V AFTERNOON ADVANCE.
Stocks Open Well and After a Quiet Forenoon Develop SStrcn&lh in, the Later 2* rading.
'•■*'■"■ '.i.->■:•/'x
>■ - ■ ••'••••''-* ■.'/•-'i’u/rk.A-*.,•• •: s-.-'-	• : • •	’ .-*
', • •	■■'■■■■.-.:	-	/ rlNDUSTBIALS. -
It is said that the-buyhig of-American Car &Foun-dry is well informed. ;;'One house which bought a good, deal of stock for-a.'customer , said fhejr considered' .-the : strength legitimate end "based upon orders in. hand and business in sight in the new year. .	,
Some of the early selling of Steel preferred had all the earmarks of a-newly opened bear account, or an important addition to a short position already held. One house which is cerdited with a good deal of Lawson business put out 5,000 shares.
Amalgamated Copper opened higher with buying said to be directed toward ascertaining the extent and strength of the short interest. -There was some rather good selling on the advance. Copper stocks in London were weak.	-
__ Western Union acted well and seems to have been fairly well bought. It is argued that the company must come to terms with Pennsylvania, whether it likes it or not, and that any settlement would be a bull factor.
The strongest byll point in the morning was U. S. Leather. The common stock advanced with some confidence until it was -checked by the sale of 5,000 shares b-y Probst, Wetzlar & Co.	t
• The early buying of U. S. Leather was by J. S. Bachc & Co., who are usually exceptionally well informed on that stock. Sorno development was hoped for from the meeting.	-
A block of 5,000 Amalgamated Copper sold in the morning was thought by some of the traders to come from the Lcwisohns.	,
There is tall: of a squeezable bear account in Colo- J rado Fuel dr Iron.
At the opening the market showed a fair amount of activity and very general strength. The volume of business was not large but the buying was quite aggressive It had less of the-character of support than it has had lor some days past. Early advances wore retained in ii.e forenoon :uid even improved on. Host of the selling looked as if it involved a position on the short side but taken all around the market was broad enough to allow for realizing on advances. By midday the volume of trading ha<l very materially fallen off but the tone was pood. Traders begun to bid up a little on the shorts. This represents a distinct change in the professional position as hitherto they have been inclined to supply stock on any small advance. Probably one of the principal influences in the market was the advance in the Louisville dividend made after hours on the previous day. This represented the gratification of hopes long held, and -.vas a good, very good angury for a number of stocks which have moved a good <t?al on their expectation lately. If. the last hour more aggressive buying orders came into the market, with :i conseqimut rise on an obviously sold out condition which .'listed up to the close. The movement, seemed to bo directed against the shorts. There was tt > loan crowd and consequently very little to indicate to what extent tin- buying hud change the technical position of the market.
Among the railroad stocks, advances of less than a full point were exceptional. Guilts of three points or more were shown ill lllover Leaf preferred. New York Central-. Alton common anil less active issues, while all the loaders like St. Paul. Atchison. .Missouri Pacific. Pennsylvania. Sontiiorn Pacific and Union Pacific gained from'oiu- to two points.	. ■	-
Tile itidustrialic shared the general tendency with the best advanced in U. S. Sto-.-,l common and preferred. Leather preferred. Car cc Foundry. Pressed Steel Car. Locomotive. Sugar ami the copper stocks. The tractions were inactive but strong.
IXXEUL INFLUENCES
Lindon was no fa«:cr in the market even in tile forenoon when the arbitrage houses were trading. It is doubtful if they dealt, in 23,000 shares all told and probable that, they sold on balance. They- supplied Steel preferred and common on the rally. Speculative attention abroad has been diverted to the Kaffir market and the two serious cheeks hero have seriously disturbed the confidence of the lamdon iqxtravors. The account just concluded shows that they arc carrying very little st<x-k cither for themselves or for speculators here. Amsterdam is doing very little in Lindon at present.
Trading iti bonds was in fair volume with a generally firm tone shown. The best improvements were in Union Pacific convertibles. Steel 5s, Wabash Bs, the Tobacco issues and Colorado Fuel convertibles. Government bonds were steady and featureless. $4,194,000.
The high class wire houses with Boston connections are noticeably bearish at present. They make haste to dissoeinto themselves from the most notorious Boston operator of tin- time, but believe that, lie is likely to be used again by more important people.
Western bouses were quite good buyers round the room early. For the past week or so their transactions has generally been on tlie other side except when they have been bidding openly in order to sell to better advantage.
Wormser was active in the afternoon bidding up prices. J
RAILWAYS.
Kansas City Southern seems likely to come into market prominence again. The buying recently has been good and-the stock has clearly gone out of the street. Any talk of change of eoiltrol is valueless unless tlie position of the Dutch holders of the stock is considered. There is good reason for thinking that no transfer of ownership could be made without their knowledge nnd consent.
lxmisville showed a fair amount of early strength on tlie increase in the dividend. It. was hardly active and showed clearly that the declaration had been anticipated ami discounted, although it was perhaps not expected quite so soon. Two months ago western houses were even talking of -r 7% basis.
One of the stories told nbout Atchison is that the authorization of $50,0011,000 convertible bonds is part of the strategy involved in the efforts to secure Union Pacific a voice in its councils. Tlieso bonds converted would make an important difference in the distribution of the voting power.
Tt was not until well on in the day that it became apparent that the advance in the Louisville dividend had brought in a little legitimate commission house business. There was not very much of it, but- it was good so far as it went, nnd had considerable influence on the professionals.	,
The movement in Detroit Southern is probably due directly to the developments in connection with Cincinnati. Hamilton ifc Dayton. A new position is created there and Detroit Southern has some important strategic features which may open up a better future for it.
The prediction now is a 4% basis for Bending in .Tanuary. When the market was not particularly strong the prediction was 3$c. The latter seems more probable nnd comes from the best, quarters.
_ Ontario A- Western reflected the advance of the stock in Ixnidon. The buying there was reported to have cleaned Sip the floating supply abroad.	'
One of the most active of tlm hfiuscs usually credited with Vanderbilt business was a good buyer of New York Central in the nfternoon.
Dick Bros., who are credited with managing the most active of the pools in that stock, were good buyers oi Chesapeake & Ohio.
Strong, Sturgis it Co. were the best buyers of Bonding during the day. They were believed to have taken at least 7,000 shares.
Tho advance in Clover Leaf looked like a Hawley mow in a Hawley stock.	■
A supply of stock from London checked the movement in If., K. & T. issues.	,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.