FEATURES OF THE MARKET: SHARP ADVANCE IN PRICES. Industrials Lead the Rise, B Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 28, 1905;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
-	„ ’SHARE. 41^01^ TRICES."' ?
TnduetruHs React the -Ri3e,'zBtit ^RaUroa3s Incline to Rag.
•■-:■'.■■"■■ The ■‘’opening^of:’the market waa strong and-.active. The Ifirst prices ;Jwere.4geDewiliy.: %'x'to :2^> '-joints 'above Saturday’s close, Thusmating, the opening aboiitfhe widest that 'has.-beeii seen Jin rsome’ time.• - The greatest activity. /developed' dn Jthe’mctel stocks and other industrials, while the .railronds wore comparatively neglected. Trading continued, —at -the -higher'-level with prices tending to ^advance; slowly-when heavy selling of Pock Island issues -made its armearance and disturbed sentiment. ’Tor a time tlie market was feverish and irregular, until assurances from interests identified with the property to the effect that the company was in good condition were made public. After that the market‘disregarded the movement in Rock Island and became very buoyant; making many new high records. In tlie afternoon there was heavy profit taking,, which brought about a reaction of a point or more in all the active issues. The speculation continued very broad and sales were so heavy that the tape was frequently fixe to seven minutes behind time. The sluirp advance in T. C. & I. and tlie renewed weakness in Rock Island affected prices somewhat, but at the close the was frequently five to seven minutes behind time. The -net restilts for die day showed general advances- for the entire list with very few exceptions.	.
Among the railroad stocks, St. Paul became active in the afternoon, making a net gain of 214 points. This served to stimulate speculation in the railroad issues as it was assumed that it represented a change of sentiment in Standard Oil quarters. Atchison was also strong on the excellent showing made by it-? statement of earnings. Union Pacific wan heavily traded in but advanced only fractionally. Most of tlie other active railroads made slight advances. •
The industrials wore tlie real loaders of the market. Amalga mated Copper crossed 1)0 mid the trading in this stock was tlie heaviest in the entire list. The Steel issues were firm but attracted little attention. Smelters advanced sharply nnd Lead made a new high record with a net gain of 734 points. The tractioi% were strong at first but later reacted, closing about unchanged.
GENERAL INFLUENCES.
Brokers report that they have a great deal of trouble in executing orders on tho floor. The market was so erratic that ir. ordeT to secure stocks at a given price it was. of ten nvccsaaiy to remain in one crowd for an hour or more. Commission houses say that this plainly indicates that, the market is highly manipulated.
There was a very small demand for stocks in the loan crowd, the average rate being 5%. It is generally believed that the short interest has been pretty well eliminated during the last few days. Stocks were freely supplied.	e
It was reported that. a trader who always carries a large interest in the market hud covered a heavy line of short stock during ihe morning.
RAILWAYS.
The break in Rock Islujid carried these stocks to new low levels. There wore rumors <>n the floor that tlie Moore brothers wera heavily short ol the market and were trying to break the advance by depressing their own Stucks,. Banking interests identified with the property characterize this story as absurd and declare .that there is no reason to expect the passing of the preferred dividend.
The buying of the southern iron issues wift accompanied by a rumor that the interests associated with Atlantic Const Tine and Louisville Xn*»hvillc intended to take over these properties much in the same way that the anthracite railroads control the coal mines.
The advance in Kansas City Southern preferred was due to very definite talk of a coming dividend declaration. A pool is said to ho at work in this stock and is talking 75 for the preferred and 40 for the common.
Union Pacific was bought mainly by traders. The talk is that it will he pushed across 140 on this movement. It is a matter of general comment That Southern Pacific refused to follow the lend of Union.	•
Tho «nle of 15,000 shares of Southern Pacific above 00 by a commission house cheeked any tendency to advance in this stock. The selling was said to. be for account of a tired holder.
The heaviest sellers of Rock Island were Raymond. Pynehon & Co.. Van Emburgh & Atterbury and the traders. They seemed to know where the.stock was coming from.
Canadian Pacific displayed considerable strength. Tho advance is in lino with the predictions made by a prominent hull in this stock for sonic time.
There was soiling of Rock Wand common on every little rally, nnd the source of this supply of stock is a matter of some concern among the hulls.
The traction i^ik* were strong with Metropolitan the lender, but there were no further news develojnnents to account for the advance.
The soiling of Rock Island, some of which came from London, very soon failed to have any further effect on prices.
INDUSTRIALS.
Amalgamated Cirpfier was taken up early on the continued strength of the metal. nnd in sympathy with the higher prices for these stocks rc|>orted from London. The advance in this stock created a feeling that the Standard Oil i 11 ter<?sts hud modified tlicir views on the market and were inclined to favor higher prices.
It. was reported (hat the long outstanding short Iu* terest of 10,000 shares in T. C. & I. had been covered on lhe mlvanee above 113. Wiwseriminn brokers started the jast sharp upward movement b.v purchases of over 18,000 Hlictrrs up to .122. It is understood that they wore acting as brokers in this purchase.
American Smelting & Refining opened up 2l/.i points Tt is understood that the bull pool in this stock is still intact. On the recent decline those buck of the advance are said to have added to their liues and prominent houses revived advice* that the short side was clangorous.
The siinnltanf*ous advance in Republic Iron & Steel and SJoss-Shcfliidd was nscribed to Gates buying, although it is understood that J. JT. Hondley hnd something to do with the Sloss-Sheffield movement.
Next to Smelters the southern iron issues wore pronrinent. Sloss-Sheffield opened up 2*** point*, and the buying in it is lielicved to be for the same interests tliat put up T. C. & T. on Saturday.
A bull tip was circulated on International Paper, and the jkioI was in evidence?. Trado reports are, however, to tho effect that the conditions of tl*e paper industry are rather poor just now.
Ono of the heaviest buyers of Lend common was Harry Content, who took over 20,000 sliares. .1 nines 1*. Keene is interested in this movement, according to current gossip,	.
When Amalgamated Copper hmehtd 00. it n nclivd the highest nricc since the spring of IDOL In April hist it nold nt 90%.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.