FEATURES OF THE MARKET: A SEVERE DECLINE. A Sharp Break in U.S. Steel ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 19, 1905;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
A SEVERE DECLINE.
A Sharp Break in XL S. Steel Encourages a Successful Attack on the Rest of the List.
At the opening the market was heavy and lower, although quotations were not down to the range of prices sent from London. The development of weakness there, however, had sonic influence ns it has been apparent for some time past that Ixmdon responds more quickly to weakness hero than to strength. Throughout the forenoon "tlu? price movement was irregular showing moderately successful efforts to support but no material recovery, although tho trend was still indefinite. Commission liouses were doing very little and it was not until tho afternoon when atop loss orders liegan to fall in that they were any considerable factor. Traders who wore looking for soft spots began to find them and had established a general decline in tlie early afternoon. The heavy liquidation in Steel preferred and common. * sold by London and tlie west, probably started the break, as these stocks have* an unquestioned influence on outside sentiment. Traders were clearly helping the decline, as the demand for stocks in the loan crowd showed, but the severity of tho losses alone shows that they wore not doing all the selling. Apart from pool liquidation in specialties like American Locomotive and Smelting weak bull accounts were disclosed all round. There was very little rally at the close and nothing which represented more thun the covering of professional shorts. Tlie street chose to take the steel trade situation and the changes in tlie Northern Pacific directorate unfavorably, but there news with a real market bearing.
Among tho railroad stocks Northern points. St. Paul 4. and Atchison. Illinois iug. Southern Pacific. Union Pacific nnd
sue* from 2 to 3 points: while declines of less than a l>oint were quite exceptional.
The industrials showed the genera! tendency with the heaviest losses in the V. S. Steel issues, the independent steel stocks. Amalgamated Copper. Smelters anil tho railroad equipment issues. The tractions were weak but not ae.»•» ve.
was very little
Pacific lost 5 Central. Readloss active is-
commission houses are <^arryiiig*I>oth common "and. pre-t . -A goad-deal.-nf aften^on'^anfl jitetivity	-fo ^TTi
The stock reflected most of the weakness m- tonfion, especially *as the.arbi-^*8? houses were sellers. This -changes the marketposi-£ioh materiaUy as jthe Vconfidence shown by the Morgan following abroad has: been a most important support to both common and preferred. ;	'
^Some of the traders on the floor thought that the muyct bore a good inany of* the ear marks of a Keene raid.. The direct attack on the strongest 'stocks on the list like St Paul and U. S. Steel preferred was quite in his early manner, and- it was also his way to let other people manufacture the explanatory rumors. .	’
In spite of the openly expressed bullish sentiments of tho Guggehheims and their following.American Smelting acted badly. Tt is claimed by the so-called “insiders** that the stock will -ultimately sell equal to American Sugar, which it may do when it has been in the market as long.	*
Amalgamated Copper was lower at the opening reflecting sales of stock bought to stimulate the rally of the last few minutes on Wednesday. Traders did not believe much in th? previous day’s buying and it is probable that the weakness in copper stocks in London had some influence.
A houro which does a good deal of Standard Oil business quietly; but is careful not to get itself quoted in that connection, was a seller of several thousand shares of U. S. Steel pfd. on the early attempt to rally that stock.
IT. Content was a heavy seller of Amalgamated Copper in the forenoon disposing of 10,000 shares in the first hour. The floor story is that a prominent Boston operator has been putting out a line of shorts.
_ borne further pool litigation was reported in American Locomotive which was under considerable pressure in the first hour. Traders arc noticeably bearish on the stock and hammer at every opportunity.
Transactions in the TT. S. Steel issues made up more than	of the transactions, and th^se stocks with St.
Paul and Union Pacific were responsible for more than half of the day’s trading.
Wolf Bros, and other Philadelphia houses were prominent among the early sellers of U. S. Stool. The house in question sold 5.000 shares or more.
Pittsburg and Philadelphia houses had selling orders in T7. S. Steel and Pennsylvania.
GENERAL INFLUENCES.
London was something of a factor in the early trading nnd altogether sold about 25.000 shares on balance. The heaviest of the foreign selling was in L. S. Steel pfd and common, and probably influenced this mnrket as much as any individual selling during the day. Arbitrage houses sold Union -Pacific. Southern Pacific and small amounts cf other stocks in the international list, but bought back some of the Southern Pacific on orders from tho curb.
Arbitrage houses reported London rather bearish on this market. Foreign operators were disappointed with trade reports -received from New York and the absence of an active bull load here. There is, however, only a very light account, open and most of the traders left the curb early.
In the loan crowd there was a good general demand for stocks. Tho ruling rate was i’.iTr with plenty of stock lending. Norfolk Western. B. A* O.. Western Union nnd Canadian Pacific loaned under the general rate. There was a good deal of private borrowing from commission houses known to l>e carrying slock, indicating that tlie loan market did not show the full extent of the bear account.	- - •’
There wns a fair volume of business in bonds. Steel 5s shared the general market, tendency to a moderate extent nn<l Union Pacific convertibles wore weak; but Burlington joint 4s wore active and firm. Government bonds were steady and featureless. Total sales. $2.354.000.
Inquiry among some of the largest nnd most conservative houses ■would indicate iaat. some of the selling of the past few days interpreted ns a bear position by certain active trailers has really been long stock.
The strength in wheat and bearish reports on crop conditions influenced a good deal of western selling, especially in tho grangers.
RAILWAYS.
The uptown contingent seems to have turned bearish on Beading and were represented among the early sellers. They are inclined to think that there is a fairly extensive bull party which bought its stock at higher prices and has been carrying it for some time. With some weakness elsewhere to help they would be disposed to test the strength of this account.
Some attempt was mode to produce bear sentiment out of tho Northern Pacific mooting but the houses most likely tn be well informed regarded tho outlook ns indicating harmony among the greater railroad interests. Union Pacific was sold on rumors of this character but the stock was well taken and indeed at one time acted better than St. Paul.
The first attempt to run St. Paul up to the prices of the previous day was a failure, althugh J. J. Manning bid up to 179 with a fair amount of assistance from other active tradors. There seemed to be more long stock in the market than there had been on Wednesday and traders, therefore, were cautious until the extent of it was known.
The buying of Burlington joint 4s was conspicuously good, as it has been for some time past. The people who are taking the bonds believe that they will be retired, and are not selling their Northern Pacific or Great Northern stocks, as they expect valuable rights on the necessary new stock issue. •
Although there was probably some buying of St. Paul cn a scale down by a house which was prominent in Wednesday’s advance, credited with Standard Oil connections, it is noteworthy that such houses were very conservative, if not bearish.
It was said that Jacob Field and his following liquid dated their St. Paul and went short, but a good many people think that they have sold more stock than they bought openly in tho past few days,
A sale of Michigan Central was made at 152 although only 100 shares changed hands. This is an advance of 12 points on th? last recorded transaction.
Traders in Pennsylvania made an attempt to follow up the activity of the previous day but reported that ths stock would not bull.
INDUSTRIALS.
An operator who executes a good deal of business for the largest financial interest says that there is more 'Steel pfd and common In the street at present than there has been for some months past. His own house finds customers who were bullish a month ago disposed to wait for lower prices while the loan crowd shows a good many
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.