FEATURES OF THE MARKET: A SEVERE DECLINE. Stocks Open Weak and Sell ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Apr 28, 1905;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.	... . ........ ... . ..........	...
seafight ofFthe cost of China, "but there is some reasm 'to think that the foreign. ^banking houses witjx JFrencJ coxmectrions 'had some -direct selling oxdezs from. R-aris^ both in stocks and bonds.	_
• - - -■. : • ... - ' ■ _ . • • ' .
XtAXLWAVS.	•	"
The continued weakness, in Missouri Pacific and the selling of that stock on any strength by the houses most closely associated with the Gould interest has given rise to some very pessimistic reports. The gross earnings in March were probably much better than in. the first two months of the year* but there is talk in conservative circles of a cut in the-dividend at the next declaration. The margin of earnings over the present 5% rate is rathex small.
Union Pacific was affected throughout by the sharp* break in Northern Pacific. The weakness in Northern Securities on the curb was also a depressing influence. Some of the foreign holdings of Northern Pacific have been sold here, and as they cannot be delivered foi some little time, advantage was probably taken of the fact .on Wednesday tq bid the ptjc© "up.
Traders took advantage of the disappointment over the Norfolk Western dividend to hammer Chesapeake & Ohio, meeting with fair success. The pool in the stock has been unfortunate, and it is understood that so far they have neyer been, able to advance the price to what their stock cosfwhen they were left with it in 1902.
Louisville opened weak on the categorical denials in various newspapers of the reported guarantee by Atlantic Coast. The stock was bulled by the Gates crowd when the rest of the market was declining last Thursday and Monday, and it looks as if they had taken advantage of the rumor to get out of some of their holdings.
Traders thought the support in Metropolitan was good. Considering the liquidation in B. R. T. and the weakness in that stock, both the Metropolitan -issues acted very well. There seems to be a steady demand for Metropolitan Securities, largely by people who have been interested in Manhattan.
Losses of two and three points were comparatively small in a market where a number of active issues lost six points and upwards. B. R. T. and Erie, therefore, in which there was a considerable scattering bull account throughout the street, may l>? said to have acted relatively well.
Some ten days ago the most active local bull of Canadian Pacific declared that he had been buying that stock steadily on a scale down. He denied that there was any pool in the stock, but traders who hammered it reported that they fancied they detected pool realizing on Montreal orders.	'
The resignation of George Gould from the Union Pacific hoard seems to indicate That the community of interests is still failing tn commune; whil? the railroad situation generally is not noteworthy for any harmony worth speaking about.	.
There seems to have l»ec:i larger speculative account in Norfolk & Western than traders hnd supposed. It will bo remembered that prediction? of an increase in the dividend were very general a month ago.
R. II. Thomas & Co. were among the heaviest early sellers of Union Pacific. A. Lipper. IT. Content and other active traders offered the stock down.
It was said that some fairly henry selling orders ir Erie in the recent past have been executed for H. C. Frick.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
Stocks opened generally weak influenced by the resumption of the selling movement of Wednesday and a fresh development of liquidation for New York account in Lornlcm. As the arbitrage houses had some of the latter stock for sale traders naturally put the price down on them iu the first quotations. 7’he opening prices were mostly a point or so below those of the previous day but th? market nmvement throughout showed that the extent of the general weakness had’u rn entirely underestimated. One of the must important influences was the further bud break.in Muy wheat in Chicago. This stimulated selling through all the houses with western connect ions. Traders hammered anything known to have a bull account in it. catching stop orders without difficulty. fw>ru time tc time rhe market looked like holding but on any real rally then* was fresh liquidation and the downward movement was not chocked. There was of course a little support in places but no attempt to bit! up. and in the absence of aggressive notion the bear traders had matters pretty nearly all their own way. One comment which is obvious -on the merest glance at the list of declines is that no single item of news, or indeed nil the news of the day put together, could be considered to adequately explain the decline. 'This naturally bred that characteristic fear of something calamitous hanging over the market, with the usual consequences. At. the dose the best that could bo said was that there was some little support from the covering of shorts but taken altogether everybody seemed anxious to get out of his slock before three o’dock.
Among the railroad stocks there were declines from four to six points in Union Pacific. New York Central. Louisville, Illinois Central. Northern Pacific. St. T^iul. Canadian Pacific and other loss active stocks. 'There were no advances, and recessions of loss than two points were quite exceptional.
The industrials shared th? general lqovcnient with the heaviest declines iu the independent steel stocks. Copper. Locomotive. Smelters and minor tions lost from two to three points.
issues. The true-
INDt’FTRIALS.
The process of throwing over the holdings of the American Locomotive pool was resumed. There was less attempt at concealment than there has been, and whore* liquidation was general the realizing did not attract any special attention. The earnings arc good but the pool seems al! along to hav* reckoned without the directorate, which is most conservative un the question of a common dividend.
The people who bought Amalgamated Copper at the opening on a strong bull point based upon the theory that uit. would look cheap with the dividend off*’ paid the best prices. The stock looked even cheaper when they had been supplied. It looks as if the National City Bank following hnd misjudged the market in their purchases before the Aliunie Henley decision.
The 17. S. Steel issues mndo a weak opening, lacking the London support which has been an important source of strength for some days past. The foreign selling of th? stock was not very considerable, but there is an extended western hull account, and it is probable that some of it was liquidated.
There was some rather heavy selling of U. S. Steel common for Pittsburg in the forenoon’s trading. Both common and preferred for the first time in quite a long period needed support. They seemed to be getting it from the Morgan interest, but there was not much attempt to bid up.
Th? pool in American Smelting was thought to have resumed liquidation but did not press the stock when the market proved too narrow to take it in any considerable quantity.
A western house with Milwaukee connections was said to hnm sold .50.000 shares, including St, Paul, Copper. and T. C. & I. in some quantity.
London selling n hnd selling orders
GENERAL INFLUENCES.
It would bo fair to'~estimate the about 20,000 shares. Arbitrage houses	.	__
for a good deal more than this, but prices here broke away so quickly nt the opening that they were unable to execute them. Most of the stocks sold may be taken ns representing what was realized in London for New York account before our opening. Sales wore well distributed, including Union Pacific, IT. S. Stool. St. Paul and Brio in some quantity, and a little Northern Pacific. London seems to be nervous over the Pqris settlement, and arbitrage houses do not expect, that any considerable buying of our storks can be stimulated there until that is safely out of the way.
Arbitrage houses who usually take a position over night did not care about buying any stock and probably sold a good deal privately for holders abroad. The volume of sales of this kind lately must have been considerable, to judge by the stock which is being borrowed pending its arrival from Europe.	,
Traders went home bearish declaring that, there had been no adequate explanation for the serious further break in the market. Plenty of thorn considered that, stocks looked cheap, but did not ear? to buy without a better explanation of the selling and the absence of support from the lending financing interests.
The Hoffman House clique sold stocks ratlicr freely on Tuesday’s, rally and is talking lower prices. Ono of the most active of them says that the whole process of interesting the public will have to be begun over again* and by the time the market is fairly moving wo should bo having crop scares and dearer money.
. Trading in bonds was in moderate volume but the active issues wore naturally weak. The severest decline was in Union Pacific convertibles, but Japanese issues* Stool Gs, M abash Bs and Kock Island 4s all lost ground. Government, bond were steady and-featureless. Total sales, $2,900,000.
ft. B. McDonald, who is credited with Harriman connections* was one of the heaviest fillers of stocks during the day. '	•
'Arbitrage houses had no confirmation of the rumored
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.