FEATURES OF THE MARKET: A SHARP DECLINE After a Strong Opening Stocks Break Badly and C
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 23, 1905;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OFTHE MARKET
done, for ten pointsk>f -£he qiastdecline. --"H. Gontenti 'whb sold'^0,000 'djaresJastiEriday, .Vaa/jilie loader -of -we. bear attack sndsold at least 15,000 ahhrea,- Boston, mis credited vrith some of fbe selling.	.
U. S. Steel issues were Opened up on die rally in . London, but declined afterwande. T^ie liquidation for. ! foreign account seems to have run. itsr course, but both common and preferred are among the limited number of stocks which ^ire still being carried in quantity by the : commission houses.	\
,	. Standard Oil houses were said to be among the buy-
, ers of Amalgamated Copper, and were even declared to have accumulated stock with ah eye to. a rally on the supposed Boston short interest. In this connection it should be noted 'that Lawson says he is not short of the market.
B. U. Thomas & Co. were large sellers of Steel preferred in the early trading. To offset this there was some buying by 31 organ brokers in the common and fairly heavy purchases of both common and. preferred by Shef field &• McCullough, who were' considerable sellers last week-	.	.	,
The best support in American Smelting was given by Morse & Moore, who bought 10,000 shares, but the stock acted badly, giving evidence of weak pool liquidation.
.... i'SHABP
\ . . - ~ -------------------; ■■ ■ . .
After'-a Strong Opening Stocks Break, Badly and Close \	’ Weak.
After showing considerable strength at the opening i in sympathy with the early, advance in London the market began to feel the effect of margin calls and sold off in spite ! of a fair support- The London buying was a valuable source of strength and was a sustaining influence up to midday although most of it was completed in the first half hour. Some rallies were retained but the buying was anything but agressive. It was more in the nature of support than un indication of retaliation -on the probably considerable short interest. In the early afternoon the market began to'liTciik under direct pressure from traders, scattering liquidation, and the catching of stop loss orders on declines. There was a very aggressive bear party, operating with a good deal of success as it. was obvious that they were forcing out a good deal of long . stock.	There was no news
that would give any adequate confirmation of bear rumoTS current but the complete abence of the public and the pessimistic attitude of tlie traders were sufficient for the further decline. Tlie market is by no means a broad one and a good many experienced judges think that the big financial interests could rally it if they chose to, in spite of the fortuitous Lawson vaporings and the rather weak position of a few market pools. -It is the absence of this support- which has caused the conservative attitude of brokerage houses which could influence business. There was a little recovery in places at the close, but the market was essentially weak.	.
Among the railroad stocks Northern Pacific last six points, while declines of a point to two points were shown in St. Paul, Canadian Pacific. New York Central, Bending. Union Pacific, and many less active stocks.. Fractional declines were the exception and there were no advances.	...
Tlie industrials were weak with tlie principal pressure in Smelters, tile independent steel stocks. locomotive and the railroad equipment issues. Amalgamated Copper, and Steel pfd. Tlie tractions were heavy with the principal decline in B. B. T. ________
GENEBAT. INFLUENCES.
London gave very valuable support to tlie market, especially in the first hour. The foreign purchases were not less than 50.000 shares, mid had a pood deni of influence in the U. S. Steel stocks and Union Pacific. There was only a narrow market on the other side, but it was materially helped by the repurchase of stocks sold lust week for continental account.	.
Arbitrage houses have been borrowers of the Steel issues mid the Harriman stocks in the lonn crowd, so that tlicir day's purchases amount in effect to the covering of shorts7. Confidence in this market among European trailers lias been severely shaken by ...a. reaction in such popular issues ns the I.. S. Steel stocks.. 1 lie foreign houses arc not hopeful of developing bliil interest in Europe without n much more definite lead from this side.
In tlie loan crowd the general rate was 2lc% nt which everything could be cnrily borrowed except Western Union, which loaned flat. There was :i decided increase in the bear account, measured by the demand oil Saturday. but everything was freely offered, and the market seemed full of stocks. The arbitrage houses returned some of the Steel they have been borrowing.
Commission houses all round report their customers pretty well sold out, but not nt nil disposed to got into tlie market again at present. I hey point out. that outsiders who bought stock on the first decline on the idea that the advance was not over have lieen badly caught in tho further severe breaks. They all seem to be wniting for a now kind.	,
Although the Hoffman House crowd was quite prominent in the buying at one period of the day, the probabilities aro that, they sold more stock than they bought, using other mid less conspicuous channels for sales. They ere ativthing lint bullish on the general market outlook, except porluips for n moderate rally on technical condi-UC>'1SBonds showed a heavy tone throughout. Substantial declines were recorded in Union Pacific convertibles. Steel 5s. Boek Island 4- and a number of issues recently active. Japanese bonds soldoff on snuill transactions. Government bonds wore steady mid featureless. Total sales Arbitrage Imuses who bought n good deal of stock after the close of the Exchange in London took the long side over night, believing thnt the market in London could be very ensilv rallied before our opening.
Among the heaviest, selling of the day was that by Bishop. Laimbeer & Co., who were, among the considerable buyers last
•week.
RAILWAYS.
T. mnile a rather disappointing showing. It that there litnl been an enormous business on
I’he buying, how-
B.	B.
was known ----- -----
Sunday to tlie popular holiday resorts and some movement was naturally expected to discount it. The buying, however, was not authoritative and confirmed the traders ..in their belief that the real “insiders” were holding off in order to be in a position to support on the franchise tax decision, which may come next Monday.	,
Traders liked the heavy buying of Erie by Van Em-burah * Atterbury, who took 20.000 shares on the moderate reaction. It is said that the 31 organ interest has been buying in quite considerable quantity and is apparently more concerned to pick up ns much stock as possible than to support or rally the market.
C.	B. McDonald had some I nion Pacific for sale on
t-lie advance under tho lead of .1 aeob I* ielii in tlie forenoon. Other selling like his gave the impression that the stronger interests were operating with a view to the possibility of another raid on the market and were not loading up with stocks.	.
St. Paul made ns strong nn opening as anything m the list, but lonpc stock appeared for sale aivd bear traders were not afraid' to test the extent and strength of tho bull account. There is fair evidence thnt this is not particularly strong, although a prominent Standard Ohl house seems to hnvo supporting orders.	____
Wonnser and Jacob Field (who bid 118 for 10,000 Union Pacific) were both conspicuous in bidding for stocks all round in the early trading. They secured a following mainly among the professionals on tlie floor, but W. B. Oliver was fairly representative of the other point of viow and was offering stocks down.	_
Laidlnw <fc Co., like a number of other houses witn Boston’ connections, were sellers of stocks round the room. They sold 5,000 Union Pacific and 5,000 St. Paul.
INDUSTRIALS.
• It is Known thnt the arrangement for division of territory by the Westinghouse Electric Co. and the General Electric Co. has been subjected to an extreme strain and thia has caused some selling. The pooling arrangement whereby General Electric got 00% and Westinghouse 40% of business still stands, but there is a fear that in view of'the strained relations over territory this may fall through as well.	. .
Traders believe that a movement is in progress either to accumulate or distribute American Locomotive common. Its steadiness within a narrow range gives probability to the views thnt the market has been sufficiently good to make a fair amount of realizing possible. Tho conservatism of the people closest to the management gives a rather bearish impression.	.	.
The very marked weakness in Westinghouse Electric recently has had some influence on investment holdings in spite of tlie opening rally in the price. The sales hav been dictated by the knowledge of serious inroads into tho company’s business made by General Electric in one of the principal departments and New York Air Brake in
Flower & Co. supported Amalgamated Copper by the Durchase of 8.000 shares or more very, much as they have
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.