FEATURES OF THE MARKET: A SEVERE DECLINE. Stocks Open Heavy and
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Apr 21, 1905;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	..	. ..	...
rights in the nearfuture.’wflxileitisiiotimprobable that the Gates pool hi TLcuisyUIe Js. taking 'advantage of the situation. to help the/price of-the .latter stock.
Miller «& Co. were' the heaviest buyers of Beading on the decline, taking, 10,000 shares,■ -while A. A. Housman bought 5,000. In spite of this there' seems to have been a shaking out of- -the western following of the pool, even if the pool itself, has not been obliged to lighten its load or sell other stocks like Erie to protect its position.
. St. Paul was- nearly.the weakest stock on the list in the day’s trading. Advices from Chicago are most conservative on the question of any possible bull account based upon developments arising out of the Northern Securities situation, and' the wire houses reflect them in their advice to other "customers.
Union Pacific was one of the weakest stocks on the list throughout the trading. It is now admitted that the Hill forces are in command of the railroad situation in th© northwest and apart from considerations personal to Yr. E. H. Harriman’s position, this has caused some good selling.	.
In spite of the fact that 3»f. K. & T. preferred shared tlie downward tendency of the general list tliere is some reason for saying that its dividend is one of the possibilities of the early future. It is believed the first declaration will be conservative, but will put the stock on a 3% basis.
There is a strong conviction amongst well-informed traders that the Harriman interest has been liquidating stock in lnrge volume. Their selling is thought <to have been principally in Union Pacific, but has also been an influence in Illinois Central nnd Southern Pacific.
H. Content was «a heavy seller of Union Pacific among the traders probably to the extent of more than 10.000 shares. Other professionals who sold reported that there wns very little evidence of support from the larger interests.	;
There seems to have boon some good selling of New York Central in tlie recent past, mainly from p?oplo who were actively circulating rumors of an alliance with Northwest nnd Union Pacific a month ago.
Kock Island, which had few friends lately, achieved distinction in such n market of being almost the only active railroad stock which did not decline a full point.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
, At. the opening, tin market was heavy and lower. T lie rally ot the previous day did not seem tn have brought any appreciable increase in th? commission house supply of buying orders while London was giving no help. Professionals were bearish but. at first, merely on the technical ground that th 're was very little buying power in evidence and nobody would care to carry much stock over a long holiday. Tn the forenoon the weakness rhown al rhe opening was emphasis'd in spite of the special strength in Louisville-nnd Atlantic Con<t. The heavy railroad stocks and particularly St. Paul. New York Central and Union Pacific were demoralized. Amalgamated Copper, of which good things have b?eu hoped, was under severe liquidation throughout and there was disquieting development of pool liquidation in American Smelting nnd n number of stocks recently successfully manipulated to higher levels. There was some obvious effort to support after midday but not of the kind to make traders bullish, white commission houses w?re selling a good d6al of stock in tho process of reducing oust outer’s accounts over the holidays. Then* was some little rally in the ?arly afternoon nnd up tn within n half hour of the clos? it looked as if the decline might be checked. The recovery proved to he merely t?mporary and in tho last half hour stocks generally declined to very nearly the lowest prices of rhe day. The hardening of call mon \v to G1 effectually discovered tho rally and tho covering uf traders’ shorts gave very little support at the hist to an essentially weak market.
Among th' railroad stocks St. Paul lost over five points. New York Central and Union Pacific more than four, while decline* of from one to three points wen? the rule with scarcely an exception of vi.nsequcnc?.
The industrials were as weak as the rest of the list with the heaviest pressure in th' Copper stocks. Smelters, and the independent steel stock* and the best support in the I’. S. Steel i>$u<?3. The tractions were weak but not active.
IXDUSTTUAT.S.	’
The bull pool in American Locomotive w»pms to bo making a determined effort to hold the price at least until come of the stock car* he distributed. The dividend prospects on the cc-mmon do not remotely justify the price, but all rhe usual methods have been taken to secure publicity among speculators of a kind likely to take over some of the pool holdings.
The dividend of 1% on Amalgamated Copper, which presumably puts the stock on a 4^c basis, would probably have been a bull argument this time last week, but merely induced a number of people to realize, on the belief that somebody else might be induced to buy their stock. Buyers wore only content to take such stock at a substantial reduction.
Amalgamated Copper was weak ail day in spite of rhe dividend forecasts, which included anything from to 1% quarterly, with	extra. The selling looked
rather good nnd would gencrlly hare been considered well-infonn?d. It looks as if some of the Flower following had not waited for the declaration, but taken profits.
Flower <fc Co. gave very vigorous open support to Amalgamated Copper, and there was some buying from a house which has been a conspicuous seller in the past few days. In spite of this the stock acted badly and traders did not hesitaatc to say that the so-called “insiders’* were selling a good deal more stock than they bought.
Tn spite nt the sanguine rumors recently current there is reason to suspect that the Broadway house which is ofrenest quoted in Standard Oil operations in Copper has been selling stock heavily for the past two days. Their own genera] following began to get out on Wednesday.	>
The liquidation in American Smelting seems to be part of tho pool operations tn unload. There is a very largo profit on paper and some of tho stockholders are sufficiently influential to support at a relatively high price so that there is not much disguise about the selling.
GKM'.K.U. INFLUENCES.
Arbitrage houses may have bought ii.UUO or 3,000 shares to oven up for their connections oil the other side over the holidays. Nobody in London was in the least disposed to trade on the curb nnd scan' of the arbitrage houses had ceased cabling before the actual close of the London market. With a four day’s holiday, followed almost. immediately by the fortnightly settlement, it wns not surprising tlrat London was indisposed to trade. One reason for the indifference js that all sorts of things may happen in the Far Fast in such a space of time, and the Faris_s?ttlenumt at the end of next week will need serious consideration when tho holidays are over.
In the loan crowd the general rate was 4%. The demand for stocks was very .scattered and for small amounts. It was quite clear that the clay's decline had not been the result of a boar raid. If anything the short interest wns reduced. All the heavy blocks of Union .Pacific recently binaGwcd were returned. This disposes once nnd for nil of the preposterous nonsense which wns current a week ago about the “largest short interest ever known.” Everything was very freely offered.
Our Hollidays coincide with those tn London, nnd on Monday when our market reopens there will be no London prices to give any lead, as that market docs not reopen until Tuesday morning. Tuesday is the beginning of the mining settlement and the regular fortnightly settlement begins on Wednesday, so that need expect no stimulus from that quarter until tho middle of the week at the earliest.
Trading in bontk was light nnd usually active issues did not attract much attention. Steed 5s, Wabash Bs and Colorado Industrial us shared the weakness of the general market. The seven* break in Union Pacific convertibles wns to lie expected in view of flic depression in the stock. Government Ixnuls were steady and featureless. Total sales $s,02fl.000.
The names of all the large operators conspicuous- at different .-times on the bear side were reported during the day. as sellers of stocks. The nnjrkot did not give-any real* hulication of a campaign on the short side, ns the trifling demand for stocks in the loan crowd very clearly showed.
Ono of the reasons for the early weakness was the fairly definite information from Chicago .that lhe Gatos pool in May wheat was practically beaten/ There/h good reason for saying that their holdings of the cereal were by no means so large as popular minor had indicated. ' Some fairly heavy calling of loans was reported by the commission houses who sent out some hurry calls for inurgin during the day and after the close.
BA1LWAVH.
One of the most striking fenturos of the forenoon trading was the advance in Louisville and Atlantic Coast in the face of the decline elsewhere. Both stocks shared the genera] weakness for the first few minutes, hut rallied in a rather convincing way. The movement in Atlantic Const seems to be,genuine and based upon big
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.