FEATURES OF THE MARKET: PRICES BREAK VIOLENTLY. Heavy Liquidation ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Apr 28, 1906;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
PRICES BREAK VIOLENTLY.
Heavy Liquidation Causes Severe Decline Throughout the ■ List.
The stock market opened with higher prices and a fair degree of activity. Stocks, however, were not up to the lead established by London. Dullness followed and for an hour the market barely fluctuated above the opening prices. Just before noon a wave of liquidation struck the market and this soon resulted in a semi-panicky collapse under which every stock on the list scored new low records. Stemloss orders were caught on the decline and weakly margined accounts were sacrificed, while the trading was enormous.	-
The high-priced stocks were the worst sufferers because people were selling these issues for which there was a market rather than the low-priced pool stocks and specialties for many of which there was not even a bid. From the low prices established on this break there was a slight recovery, but this did not last long and stocks soon gave way ur.der further liquidation. On this break many issues which had held strong during the day. declined sharply and from the level thus established the market enjoyed no recovery to speak of. The close was weak and unsettled with trading active up to the very last minute. Total sales were over 1,750,000 shares.	'	.
Among the railroad stocks Union ’Pacific was the most actively traded in, and although an apparent effort was made to sustain its price, it gave way with the rest of the list, though it closed with a recovery of a point from the lowest price. It contributed nearly 15 per cent, to the trading. Reading declined six points from the high of tho morning, but in the last hour'recovered two points and closed firm. The greatest weakness was in the Hill stocks. Great Northern preferred at one time showed a maximum decline of twenty-seven points, ten of which it recovered in the later trading. Northeim Pacific declined fourteen points and recovered nearly three. There were breaks of one to four points in all the other railroads.
Amalgamated Copper-was the most "active industrial, closing near the lowest after an early advance. There was liquidation by the pool in United States Steel common, which broke through 40, and there were heavy declines in all the specialties, for which there was a narrow market. Colorado Fuel & Iron made the sharpest decline, losing over seven points. B. R. T. declined to 75% on heavy liquidation by the pool and its followers.
tofore- these /interedts . were' generally; reported r as being bullish, although 4 rumors 'about their selling began to circulate a’few days ago..	‘ :	.
Brokers which often act for a large banking house on Pine street were reported to have been buyers of stocks on all the breaks. The house referred to has heretofore been bearish on the market. \	'
There appears to have been a reversal of opinion among the two leading financial interests in the street.
Since the earthquake the averages of the twenty active railroad stocks have declined 9.71 points to 122.95, a new low for the year.	, .	, ' •
It is curious to note that just a year ago at this time !'ie market underwent heavy, liquidation and prices broke ,- iarply. The level of average prices of railroad stocks is nv W close to that of a year ago.
The coal issues showed early strength on the publication of the offer l>y the miners to the operators which was taken to mean that the miners were preparing to abandon the strike.
A number of the firms who wore reported as heavy buyers yesterday were sellers in the morning. Notably Bishop, Laimbeer & Co. who were among the heavy buyers of Steel common at -11% on -Thursday sold the stock this morning and they were also sellers of Reading.
Pressure was exercised mainly against Copper, Reading, and U. S. Steel common. The first two having shown the largest recoveries among the active stocks, were considered good short sales by the bears, while an attempt was made to depress the Steel issues in the expectation that the heavy purchases of Thursday would come on the market to-duv. All these three stocks showed rather good resistance.
Discussion turned largely on the probable result of the movement of cash during the week! and the probable effect of liquidation on the stock market. There was much confusion of idea, but the general expectation seemed to be that the result would be a rather bad bank statement.
Gates £• Co. were rather inactive in the market in the morning and the little they did was on the selling side.
London’s interest in this market was small, but on the Lniying side. Its purchases were mainly in United States Steel and Union Pacific, and were purely of-an arbitrage nature.	'
The expectation that the market here would respond to the lead from London was doomed to disappointment, and it is evident that the stock market in this city is under an influence entirely separate from that which dominates the foreign exchanges at this time.
Amalgamated Copper suffered an extreme decline of about four points in the break. Standard Oil interests have been persistent sellers of Amalgamated from 11-1 down. There was considerable covering on the part of Standard Oil people Thursday, but on lhe advance above 10G in the early trading Friday they put out another line of short stock.
The selling came mainly from western houses wlm have been dealing out stocks all morning. John W. Gates returned from Washington after a few days’ absence. Traders thought it a curious coincidence that the market should repeat its performance of breaking after a Gates visit to Washington.
The great weakness in the Hill stocks was the cause for the general collapse. Great Northern declined to 29S after opening at 308. Northern Pacific sold down to 20-1 a loss of six points.
There was heavy selling of Steel, although it is reported that a certain prominent financier is again bullish cn this stock.	.
The tape was from 5 to 10 minutes behind the market. It was curious to note that the break came almost at the same time as the announcement of gold imports. No attention was paid to news developments, the state oi the market being the only topic of interest.
Spencer Trask & Co. were heavy sellers of the Hill stocks and it is reported that they sold over 100,000 shares of various issues.
It was again reported that James R. Keene was hammering the mnrket. Selling was supposed to have come from him on Thursday, but it is very doubtful if he has done much on the short, side.
Excitement was intense and the confusion on the floor was such as had not been seen since the Northern Pacific panic.
It was reported that banks were calling loans and that <ho houses which have been particularly active in a number of the industrial pools were the ones which sold the high priced stocks in order to protect their holdings of issues which they could not sell.
The market for Union Pacific, Amalgamated Copper and Steel was very good considering the .general state of affairs. It was possible to sell within % point of the tape prices.
The banking interests most, closely identified with the Harriman roads are .understood to be buying Union Pacific on a scale down. Their brokers seem to be taking from 5,000 to 10,000 shares on each point decline and there seems to be provision for such purchases as low as 140. There has been buying of the same character in Southern Pacific hut in this case the scale orders are not so far annrt.
Lenders of tponey say that since the declaration of the dividend, Consolidated Gas has made its appearance in the Ioans of houses with Standard Oil connections.
Clarence Ilousman. of A. A. Housman & Co., denies thaffthey were heavy sellers of stocks just before the’break. They admit selling a few thousand shares of Steel common but not for the account of the firm or any of its members.
■ Now that the confusion of the crash is beginning to subside stories are heard to account for the starting of the break. The one which received the most credence is to the effect thnt a large house on Broadway which has been bullish on the Hill stocks called for more margin on a long line ot Great Northern and Northern Pacific and when this margin did not rfinkc its appearance by noon they sold out the account.
Houses with foreign connections report that after the arbitrage trading was over and news of the big break reached London, heavy buying orders were sent over by cable to be executed in this market and the buying for the account of foreigners has not been ns heavy in many months. It is estimated that since noon, London has bought over 50,000 shares of various stocks, while the continent also has been a very heavy buyer.
It is reported that interests identified with the First .National Bank were heavy sellers earlier in the day. Here-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.