FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: STOCKS RALLY SHARPLY. Heavy Short Covering ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 5, 1906;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	_
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
STOCKS RALLY SHARPLY.
Heavy Short Covering Causes Sharp Rise, Especially in Amalgamated and Redding.
The stock market opened moderately' active, with considerable irregularity and a rather feverish tone. With the exception cf Amalgamated Copper, the opening prices of most of the active issues were unchanged. Amalgamated Copper, however, opened down a full point. Almost immediately on the opening the short interest began to cover. Although at first this movement was halting and uncertain, uneasiness among the shorts increased as the day wore on and Drices maintained their tendency to advance.
By the noon hour there had been a recovery of from one to three points in the active stocks. At that time the President’s message transmitting to congress the report of Commissioner Carfield on his investigation of the Standard Oil Company was made public, and this was at once followed by a sharp drive against the shorts. Starting in Rending and Amalgamated Copper, the rally soon spread through the- rest of the list, and as the afternoon advanced it found lhe bears in full retreat.	.	*
The market, which had been dull in the morning, increased in activity, and sales in the last hour equalled one-third of the entire day’s transactions. The day’s business exceeded that of Thursday by nearly 200,000 shares. At the close the market was active and buoyant, with prices at the highest point of the day.
Among the railroad stocks Reading was the leader, scoring a recovery of over eight points from the low price of Thursday on sales exceeding 300,000 shares, or 20't' of the day’s trading. Union Pacific was the next active stock, with -i net advance of nearly four points for the day. Pennsylvania, which sold ex dividend, was actively traded in, and recovered a good share of ’the 3% distribution. New-York Central, by a sensational advance of 6% points on only 20,000 shares, demonstrated tl-.e narrowness of its market. There was not a railroad stock on the list that did not show a sharp recovery for the day.
Amalgamated Copper was not only the most active industrial, but lhe most active stock on the entire list, contributing more than 20'/ of the total sales. It advanced. 6>4 points from the low price of the day. American Smeltin" •<- Refilling and other specialties made big recoveries, mainly at the expense of the short interest. B. K. T. was strong, and the Interborough-Melropohtan group recovered it’s losses of Thursday. U. S. Steel issues were less in evidence, although they showed considerable strength. i
hinny commission houses report that they had been ; trying to execute buying orders of odd lots in many issues, ' but that they had found it impossible to get the stocks at ; lhe prices named by the buyers.	I
‘ When Amalgamated Copper reached par it brought . out a number of stop loss orders for the account of some of the bears who sold short Thursday at OS, or lower. , The opinion was general that the stock sold on Thurs-chiv went into a bag.	‘
’ The way the market held in the early afternoon even : after a rally of from two to four points in the active stocks ’ encouraged those who had been expecting a recovery.
The rise in the market following the publication of the President's message was caused by the bullish con-s’truction placed on the message so far ns railroads are concerned. The message suggests that railroads should ne-permitted to make certain combinations under supervision of the Interstate Commerce Commission for proper purposes. Railroad stocks responded by a sharp advance.
The heaviest sellers of Reading were again A. 0. Brown & Company, who sold 10,000 shares. The stock offered by this house was, however, easily absorbed, and brokers reported tlmt. there was a demand for more.: It appears to be rather generally believed that the short; interest in Reading is very nearly as extended as was the bull account in the same stock.
Attempts to break the price of Copper were not successful. Whenever the stock showed any inclination to sell off brokers, representing Flower & Co. appeared as heavy buyers. The same firm bid up the stock whenever it saw a chance.
The publication of the President’s message was the signal for a big drive against the short interest. It carried the price of Reading up to 118%, the stock jumping % point between sales.
There has been no commission house business to speak of. Offices generally are bare of customers, indicating that most of these have closed out their accounts and have retired to await developments.	.
There’ is a good deal of discussion as to the principal who has been back of the bear raids on the market. There is some talk that Mr. Keene has been an active bear because a certain notorious character who is still on friendly terms with the great operator has been going the rounds with stories of dire disaster to come. Those who know ; Mr. Keene best, however, do not believe that his commit-' ments on the short side have been extensive.	I
A good deal of guessing is also being indulged in as I to who .he big losers on this break have been. The gossips think that the western plungers have been heavy losers.
Amalgamated Copper dominated the market. There. appeared to be a good fight in this stock between the bears. who were trying to cover and brokers who appeared to j have orders to make it as difficult as possble for the short' interest to take any stock.	■
It is understood that Standard Oil broilers were heavy. borrowers of Amalgamated after the close on Thursday night, and it is believed that tlie object was to prevent those who have been hammering the stock from getting it. Borrowing lhe stock with no intention of delivering it has the same effect as liuying it.
It was noticeable that for the firSl’i'lrtiC in many days the market has shown activity on the advance. During the slight reaction about 10.30 a. nt. the market became dull.
The fact that there was a small demand for stocks in the lean crowd Thursday night was taken by some to mean that the short interest was small. This is misleading. and it is known that many of the biggest shorts did their borrowing privately.
In the Interborough-Metropolitan crowd on Thursday there were nt least fifty brokers who were each bidding 501 for 1,000 shares. There was very little stock offered at that «rice. but one solitary man wanted to sell 100 shares at SO's. The anxious bidders at 50 for thousands of shares were unwilling to take the 100-sliare lot % higher.	:
Amalgamated Copper, in which the greatest interest . centered on account of its weakness during the last hour ; on Thursday, opened down a full point but rapidly recov-; ered the loss on very heavy buying. Anaconda made a new : low record for the year at 223%.	:
London’s interest in this market was limited to 20,000 shares, most of which represented purchases of Union Pa-ciflc and the Steel issues. On the advance later in the day: it sold come stock. The purchases on direct orders from: Europe are reported to be still continuing quite heavy, and : are furnishing more support to the market than the trad-, ing of the arbitrageurs.	•	i
' Amalgamated Copper was the leader of the marset,: making a sensational advance to 102, six points from the J low price cf the morning.	•
The demand from the short interest was so large that: it easily absorbed the stock which had been bought to support tlie market Thursday and Wednesday and some of which came out on the advance.	;
The short interest is understood to have been particu-lnrly vulnerable, because a large part of the short lines outstanding was very closely margined. In some cases margins on several thousand shares did not exceed three or four’points. The reason for this was that the bears were : so flushed with success that they overtraded.	:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.