FEATURES OF THE MARKET: HEAVY BREAK IN STOCKS. Urgent Liquidation ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 1, 1906;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
HEAVY BREAK IN STOCKS.
Urgent Liquidation Causes Big Declines in the General List,
On the Inst duy of tho month tho market suffered the most severe break which it has experienced since the culmination of the bull movement at the end of January. The opening was dull with irregular price movements, but alter the* first half hour an active selling movement set in which resulted in losses of from 1 to .-0 points in the entire list. The selling which caused the break did not represent short stock or bear manipulation, but was evidently liquidation. A great deal of it came from people and was probably forced by the firmness in the money market and the expectation of still higher rates for call funds. The selling continued up to the very close, and although there was a slight rally in the last hour this was almost entirely due to covering of short sales by traders. On the break earlier in the morning considerable short lines had been put out, but at the close of the market there was little demand in the loan crowd, and it is doubtful if the short interest is a very large one. Without support from the shorts the technical position of the market cannot be much improved and further liquidation is expected in well-informed quarters. The money situation was the chief factor in the market, although the continued agitation against corporate interests and the likelihood that bills inimical to them will be passed is beginning to exert an unfavorable influence. With few exceptions the close was near the lowest prices of tho day. The total transactions were the largest in some time.
Among the railroad stocks Union Pacific was the most active. It contributed 17*n of the day’s trading. The'selling in this stock came largely from western houses, who thus roversed the bullish attitude they assumed on it a week ago. The decline in Great Northern preferred and Northern Pacific caused a great deal of uneasiness. ..
Among the industrials the greatest selling pressure was directed against the so-called Guggenheim issues, mainly American Smelters and National Lead. The latter at one time showed a loss of 10 points from the previous night’s close. There has been a large bull interest in these issues and th** break therefore a had a wider influence than that of almost any othei stock. Amalgamated Copper and U. S. Steel were both active and weak. Of the tractions the Metropolitan issue* recovered, and /icy were about the only stocks to show a net gain at the day’s close.	*
Metropolitan Street Railway appeared to be getting some support at the low level. The buying is said to be for interests identified with the merge; proposition. If the new preferred stock is to be u sure 3% dividend payer, -.s predicted by Mctiopohtan interest., the old stock would appear iea>onably cheap at present prices. Members ot the latest Metropolitan committee think that there is nothing now to do but to cither sell or io depodt the stock, and they think the latter tlie cheaper plan.
It is stated that deposits of all < lasses of stocks which are to go into the street railway merger and which have been very light heretofore arc unusually heavy this morning. The latest circular and the hieak in Metropolitan seem to have achieved their object.
The stocks in which there has been the grcatesl activity so fur have been Union Pacific, Reading, Copper, Smelters, and Lead. The lattoi was tipped foi an advance early in tho morning. This effort to distribute stock an*- not ruececsful however.
The rise of money caused liquidation by pools who did not care to carry their stocks againit higher money rate'-.	.
The annual statement of the Equitable Life did not evoke much favorable comment. The fact that the market value of the company’s securities on December 31 was only $1.000,00u in exco's of the book value or less than % of 1% was not liked.
The heavy lo®s by the banks to the sub-treasury, exceeding $5,000,000, had a very unfavorable effect, and the money rate became quite hard The speculative element, however, did not consider these factors a sufficient explanation. The question which had not been heard since 1903 was asked again and everyone wanted to know what was ‘‘hanging over the market.” It was thought that tho heavy sales by tho Gates people must be based on knowledge of development*: which have not yet become public.
The trading for London account was limited. Snle3 overbalanced purchases, but ♦he interest of London was too much occupied with developments at home to pay much attention to the American market.
The depression in the Kaffirs and the reported failure of a large firm at Glasgow adversely influenced sentiment in London, and the tendency was to liquidate speculative holdings especially in view of the unfavorable developments in the market here.
Among the heaviest sellers wer« Gates & Co who sold 20.000 share® of Union Pacific, beside1* large lines of other stocks H. Content was also a heavy seller of Union, and under this wave of stock prices broke very easily. On the floor the trading in Union Pacific was called manipulation, but tho object of it was not clear.	.
Next to the heavy break in tho Hill slocks, the weakness in U. S. Steel and Copper asserted the greatest influence on sentiment. The selling in these stocks came largely from western houses. It was reported that a good many stop loss orders were coming into siglit.
Much interest centered in Metropolitan Street Railway. The circular advising stockholders to deposit their stock seems to have official sanction, but it is likely to have the opposite effect from that desired. Last Deccmbei officers of the company stated that the system was then earning Now the officials express confidence that it will earn 5% under the merger. It is therefoie not surprising that stockholders prefer to remain in statu quo.
The decline of Tuesday afternoon came like a frost in spring. It has succeeded in nipping in the bud the bullish feeling which was beginning to assert itself in tho market.
There was some desultory talk about the Hill ore deal. When the stock goes up the deal is on and when tho stock goes down the deal is off. The course of important negotiations never runs smoothly and thu conflicting rumors will probably continue until James J. Hill and George W. Peri kins get back to town. Great Northern opened up and nd-| vanced but at once broke two points between snles of 300 : shares.
i There was considerable strength in the Gould issues and there was bullish talk in Missouri Pacific. Wabash preferred advanced easily. Denials of financing plans arc considered technical. The demand for tho stock in the loan crowd was very good and it .s reported as loaning flat.
Commission houses report that the break in prices sn i far from creating any demand among the public at large has only served to frighten it off.
The Metropolitan stocks were quite firm and traders thought that there would be no further pressure if the doI posits in favor of the merger plan should continue to com? > up to the expectations of the management.
■ There was heavy selling on all the weak spots I and most of thisiwas credited to rather good sources. ! Clark, Dodge Co. who are credited with Hill associa-: tions were heavy sellers of the Steel issues.
; It is reported that H. Weil had wagered $500 that the price of Union Pacific would decline 10 points before | it would advance 10, the\tarting point being fixed at 151%. j S. H. Pell was one of the heaviest buyers of the day. He took large blocks of Reading, Amalgamated, Steel common and Union Pacific.
The demand for stocks in the loin crowd did not come up to expectations. It was supposed that there had been a good deal of short selling during the day and the fact that the demand was so limited even from traders was thought to indicate that a good deal of the short stoek had been covered in the last hour, thus accounting for the rally. The ruling rate was 0%%.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.