FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A CONTINUOUS DECLINE WITH A WEAK CLOSE. Bear Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 16, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
A CONTINUOUS DECLINE WITH A WEAK CLOSE. Bear Selling and Fresh Liquidation Start a Freeh Break —New Low Records for the Year in Many Actwc Stocks—.4 vcragcs Break the Low
Point of Oct. 29.
At the opening everything was lower, although the foreign selling was not heavy. Liquidation from local interests, however, developed in quantity, and before midday the general list was down from 1 to 3 points so far as the active issues are concerned. Unquestionably there was a good deal of short selling, and there was every temptation in indulge in trading of that character, for nothing remotely resembling aggressive support developed anvwhere. Straightforward liquidation of an urgent character appeared also, and with this in progress the bear in such a market naturally feels safe. The money condition, of course, still underlies everything, and nothing moves without reference to that difficult question. Foreign advices were decidedly less satisfactory. Paris seemed to hesitate about helping the London market with further gold, and in these circumstances foreign sellers naturally devoted a good deal of consideration to the possibility of an 8% bank rate, and its consequences. One of the consequences might very easily be that foreign holdings of our bonds, which have hitherto been singularly well held, might come on this market in quantity. 3 his is one of the economic results of going off the gold basis. We are paid by our debtors in ;>ur own paper, while they collect their obligations in gold at the earlist possible moment. The one hope is, of course, the release of hoardings, and it is at least encouraging, tc see the rather easier tendency in the premium on currency here. This is slow in being reflected at other points, and until it is the position will continue to require the most delicate handling. There were small rallies on the covering of shorts, but the close was weak, and only a little above lowest.
Among the railroad stocks, Atlantic Coast lost nearly 5 points, Northwest. Union Pacific, New York Centra! ail'd Northern Pacific 3, Atchison, Canadian Pacific. Great Northern, Pennsylvania. Heading, and Southern Pacific all - points <>r more. The really active stocks were all included in this list, and there were no advances.
The industrials were equally weak, with the principal pressure in Smelters and Steel preferred. The tractions c.’erc heavy and lower.
U. S. Steel common acted badly below 23, but it is understood that powerful supporting orders are in the market, as the price approaches 22. It was at this figure that the. Keene support for the Morgan interest was forthcoming in the panic break. Traders are curious to see if it will be as effective now as it was then.
I he Tliil stock.-- opened heavy and lower on what looked like the selling of long stock. There is probably no re.il spi -ulr.iive position in Great Northern or Northern Pacific, ami some selling >f the latter for Loudon was not well taken.
In the first few minutes Atchison common. U. S. Steel preferred nnd St. Pan! made new low prices for the year.
Some selling of Steel common for llerzfeld X- Stern attracted attention early. They were said to have given out some sunstantial selling orders in the same stock on lhursday. Traders thought the source was significant, and tool: the short side.
.1. S. liacho X- Co. were conspicuously heavy sellers of storks round the room in the early trading. They have been carrying very little for customers for a long time past, and were probably used to disguise the source of the selling orders.
The decline of nearly three points in Now York Central was the direct consequence of the report that tlie question of new financing was to be taken up at once. It is admitted that money is urgently needed, and while there is said tn he some Vanderbilt support in the market. the liquidation, in part at least, is thought to come I font the neighborhood of 2(5 Broadway.
It is understood that the St. Paul recently sold formed collateral in a large loan which could not be taken up a fortnig’.t ago. but is being liquidated now on an understanding made at the time the loan matured. It is said toe stock was held by the principal supporter in the long decline.	'	,
London sold a little stock at the opening, perhaps 10.0110 shares or so, but arir.trage bouses did not seem disposed to follow tile market down. The selling was nminlv ill tiie U. S. Steel issues and lite Hill stocks, but did not' include the Harriman issues in any quantity.
Arbitrage houses upon the whole missed their market. They had naturally been expected to sell stocks after the weakness in London, and some of them concluded to wait, believing that traders were putting prices down on them to get their slock as cheaply as possible. The result was that the market was taken away from them mainly bv selling for Pittsburg and other center.-.
It was generally thought that the selling of American Smelters came limn people closely interested in that property. or at ai-v rati in a position to command the fullest information on its outlook for business. It seems less a question of dwidend talk, although that is pessimistic, tlgin of straightforward liquidation of collateral.
. , ,	—«—
E. !•'. Hu'.lon X- Co. were sellers of stock round the room, inelnffing Smelters in some quantity. Their following has bion among the most bearish in the Street for months past, but one operator who traded largely through them is now mit of the market. '
'The heaviest seller of Union Pacific in the early afternoon was .1. A. Black', to the extent of 10.000 shares. It was presumably selling for T. I.. Manson & Co., who were also sellers openly, while Wolf Bros, had a selling order in fur lti.tmtt -hares of Southern Pacific, which looked as if it came from the same source.
One of the disturbing features of the market hns been the selling of bonds in some quantity for London and Europe generally. This seems to be on the fear of an 8 per cent, bank rate. It is the first development of the kind, and if continued would have a serious influence on the exchange situation.
In the general depression of liquidation, when values and earning capacity are lost sight of, it is pointed out by good judges that not much traction stock is coming to market. One good reason for not selling any of the Interborough group is that a traction company in a receiver's hands is not apt to pay out anything to accelerate public sentiment, and saves in various other ways items classified in the report as “legal expenses."	•
, It is said that a large loan in New York Central was in process of liquidation. Some traders were inclined to ascribe this to the same source as the more important selling of St. Paul.
Charles G. Gates made his appearance on the floor for the first time since his return from Europe. lie is credited with signaling his return by a plunge in Union Pacific on the short side.
Rather more selling orders from Southern points were reported during the day than has been the case lately. /Apart from the indications that the pinch for currency is being felt, the legislative situation is much disliked, and has probably been responsible for liquidation in Louisville, and perhaps some short selling in that stock.
Union Pacific enjoyed the distinction of being the only stock that crossed the hundred thousand share mark, while it was tlie most active stock, not excepting U. S. Steel, which was a respectable second. Activity was more generally distributed, as eleven stocks exceeded 10,000 sliarcs, against nine on the. previous day.
At 82.50, the average price of twenty active railroad stocks lias broken below the figure recorded Oct. 29, and is now below the figure prevailing at the second election of President McKinley. Every time the average price has broken the previous low after a rally, a severe further decline has been the rule. This is given merely as a matter of record, and not offered as a bear argument, because it is obvious that that condition logically cannot exist forever.
Reports are current that a weak holder of International Paper has been helped over.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.