FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A CLOSING RALLY AFTER A SEVERE DECLINE. ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 13, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
FEATURES OFTHEIftARKET
stocks and the twelve'industrials. whoae-average price has been kept for -sb many .years in these columns for purposes of 'comparison,: are'now well below the last .low .point .es-'■ tablished on March 25th. Irrespective of values and on technical .conditions alone, this is an extremely bearish in-, dication,' but it must not be forgotten that the market ■ is acting contrary to all rules in many respects.
One reason for the liquidation was the telegraph, striky; Commission houses naturally insisted upon 'heavier margins than usual, declining to .take the risk of imperfect telegraphic communication in' such a market. The consequence was that a number of weak accounts were sold out. •
A CLOSING RALLYi AFTER A SEVERE DECLINE.
Stocks OpenFrom 2 to 5 Points 'Lower—Rumors of Trouble: | in Berlin Unconfirmed, But Heavy Foreign Sell- ■ trig—Stocks Look Sold Out at Last and Rally a Little in the Last
Half Hour.
Stocks made altogether the most demoralized opening of the present severe decline. Losses on the first few sales extended in some cases to nearly five points, while there were few really active issues which were not two points lower. The showing was altogether too bad to be true, and vigorous supporting orders were forthcoming in the’ first hour. The flood of liquidation was too heavy to check altogether, but there was a rally of about 50% of the early decline, due very largely to the covering of shorts, although no doubt some support had been hastily organized where slocks looked like getting altogether out of hand. There was heavy selling from points in Europe, and the chapter of accidents was against the market, as the telegraph strike made extra- margins necessary, for out-of-town customers, and naturally -forced liquidation. The most bearish of the semi-professional clement, which has its present headquarters ' at Saratoga, seemed to be buying through the houses which have branch offices there. T.his represented the covering of shorts; and probably a good deal of stock was put out on the occasional small rallies throughout the day. The net recoveries were not very large and the volume of trading shows that some' very heavy lines were liquidated. With ail the decline there was nothing in the news of a definite character calculated to confirm rumors recently current. The London settlement begins to-day, but there seems no indication of weakness there, and the news from Berlin was of a highly indefinite character. Strictly speaking, this is one of the worst features of the decline. It will generally be found that when the reason for a bad break in the market is fully known, the break is over. It is the uncertainty and perhaps the touch of hysteria which is sweeping across the country at present, which appears to be doing all the damage.	•
Among the railroad stocks, Delaware & Hudson losv five points and Northern Pacific four, B. &. 0., Louisville, Missouri Pacific, and less active issues three, and practically everything else a point, or two points, or more. The industrials were equally weak and the tractions severcy ue-pressed.	’_______
The rumor of an important German discount bank in difficulties pressed hardly upon stocks held abroad. There is some Harriman following in Germany, while Canadian Pacific is largely held there, and the Hill stocks arc also to some extent held in Berlin. It will be observed that all these groups suffered.
Arbitrage houses started to sell stock at the opening, but some of their orders were withdrawn. The orders of the commission houses, which arc generally in some quantity on a Monday morning, had to be badly slaughtered, especial.y as an urgent call for margin was sent out on Saturday.
Urgent orders to support the market were sent in after the first few minutes’ break. It looked as if financial interests which have been anything but bullish on the market position were forced to support their own specialties and even the general list, in order to keep the market from getting out of hand altogether. Kuhn, Loeb houses and the Standard Oil interests were active, and even the Morgan stocks seem'd to be getting protection.
It is said that the weakness in bar silver in London was due to the severe decline in American Smelting here and the extended Guggenheim position in the metal.
J. S. Bache & Co. were large buyers of stocks round the room, helping the early rally materially.
T. A. McIntyre & Co. reported that they had executed the largest number of buying orders in odd lots since the March break, when such purchases were a feature. Like ’other houses of the same class they were substantial buyers on balance.
For a good part of the first hour the tape was from 3 to 5 minutes behind the market, but caught up with the sales by 11 o’clock.
J. S. Bache & Co. were probably the heaviest buyers of stocks in the forenoon. They did not execute their orders quite so easily as might have been expected from the heavy selling at the opening. There was of course a good deal of real liquidation, but the attack cn Reading looked as if it had originated with the active semi-professional crowd which is at present making its headquarters at Saratoga.	________
Standard Oil support in U. S. Steel common was one of the interesting features of the early decline.
Missouri Pacific was one of the weakest stocks on the list in the forenoon. A number of stop orders were caught and the stock developed more activity on the break than it has shown in some time past. There were, of course, the usual rumors of a reduction in the dividend rate, but tl’.ere is nothing new in them.
.T. S. Bache & Co. reported from the floor that the market was holding better than had been looked for. Other active houses expressed the same opinion, but u good many of them were inclined to call the movement a temporary rally, pending some development of a definitely encouraging character.	_______
The harder tendency of call money was a good deal quoted by the bear party as reflecting the needs of the London settlement. The inference was wrong because if it had arisen from that cause there would have been much more demand for cable transfers, which were merely steady.	_______
Ixindon was a heavy seller of stocks on balance, but more through private banking houses than through the usual arbitrage channels. Arbitragaurs probably bought more than they sold ir. the first hour. but. on the rally turned round again, selling nt least 25.000 s’nnres on balance. Tn addition to this it is estimated that further sales from Berlin and elsewhere made up the total to at least GO,000 shares.	_____
There is some reason to suspect that the selling from Berlin which caused such alarm ir. London was at least due in part to orders sent through that center from Now York to disguise their origin. A Berlin bank, which is ns-sociat/M with one of the important financial interests here was reported as a heavy seller in London and this was responsible for some of the alarmi3t rumors. The selling for foreign account indicates that some of this stock is coming back.	_______
C. B. McDonald and other traders who had buying orders on the first break appeared to be willing enough to distribute stocks on any small rally. There was some investment buying, but taken all around, the support was poor and, as the traders said, it required something more than bargain hunters to rnlly the market.
Arbitrage houses in the afternoon expressed considerably more confidence about the position in London than they hnd at the opening. They believe that the settlement just beginning will show a fairly extended bear account, and they do not think there wero enough bulls in London to cause any considerable losses on the account.
On the afternoon rally Morison Bros, and Popper & Stornbnch were l»th heavy sellers of stocks around the room. Traders thought this represented short commitments covered earlier und put out again. Shorts vory generally resold when the market became dull on rallies.
Active commission houses with a miscellaneous following. bought moro stock than might have been expected. Hallo & Stieglitz were heavy buyers of Steel common and wore also an Important source of support in Pennsylvania and other active stocks. ________ ,
In the lonn crowd, the genornl rate was 2W%. Canadian Pacific still commands a smnll premium and Penn-sylvanin. Reading, Now York Central, Eric, Atchison and U. S. Steel common nil loaned from Vk to 1% bolow the ruling rate. There was a generally strong demand for stocks.	_____
Athough Reading, Union Pacific, and U. S. Steel, active In the order namod, were, responsible for 450,000 shares of tha day’s total, this was barely 40%. The fact thut seventeen stocks crossed the 10,000-share mark, and three more came near It, shows that activity was more general than it has been for a long time past. The day’s sales also represent the highest total in the present downward swing.	_____
At the present level both the twenty active railroad
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.