FEATURES OF THE MARKET: A DAY OF VIOLENT FLUCTUATIONS. Market Opens ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 16, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	_	...	.	..... ....
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
A. DAY OF VIOLENT FLUCTUATIONS.
when London has a. great many .matters to adjust.Good Friday is a statutory bank holiday and so is the following Monday, so that all the arrangements for the end of the quarter would have to be completed by the night of Thursday, March 28th.
Ihrket Opens Much Above Previous dosing and Maintains Higher Prices Fairly Well.
Stocks made a wild opening, but were generally much n ove the closing prices of the previous day. Treasury nj.p, no failures, and returning courage were the bull at:tors. London started the rally and advances of from rt'o to ten points over there were reflected here immediate-fly- The course of the market during the day emphasized ft >e panicky condition of Thursday and represented in fact ■rccisely the kind of rally which takes place after such a ■creak. ’In the panic of the 9th of Slay, 1901, a good deal Of the recovery was made on the. seme dnv as the decline. Stacks advanced strongly throughout the day with violent fluctuations, but a uniformly upward tendency. There was ^nothing to be said for individual movements as the whole ■market for three days at least has been moving without cnj- regard for values or special considerations. There I; no doubt that on the advance there was very heavy covering of shorts. This was accompanied by the usual bargain hunters’ investment buying, which was larger in volume than it usually is in such circumstances. The course of the market is typical. It will be seen that the average price of twenty active railroad stocks recovered just half the decline of the two days’ break in the course of one day’s trading. This is the usual course of the market and hitherto has invariably been followed by a.gradual sag to some-vhere near the old low level. The sag indicates the selling out of large accounts which were taken over to help individuals when the market was at the most dangerous point, t also involves the liquidation of stock bought in large volume to save the market from breaking away altogether. The course in past years after such liquidation is over has :een a dull and relatively inactive traders’ market obviously waiting for a new impulse. It is in fact the technical end ■if a long swing. As r. rule the indication is bearish if the average once more breaks through the oid low point. The close was strong and at the best of the day.
Among the railroad stocks Delaware & Hudson gained 141-5 points, Steading 12, Union Pacific 11, St. Paul 9 and everything else from 2 points upward. Rallies of less than two points were quite exceptional.
Tlie industrials made a similar recovery with a 13-point advance in Amalgamated Copper. Nearly 11 in Smelters and gains on the same scale throughout the list. The tractions recovered most of their previous day’s decline.
Precisely the stocks which made the largest declines on Thursday recorded the best rallies. These stocks were Reading, Union Pacific and Amalgamated Copper which all advanced from 11 to 13 points.
It is admitted in the most conservative quarters that a large number of accounts which will never be heard of generally had to be helryl over. In addition to this small accounts insufficiently margined are likely to be distributed in the near future. The selling from these sources after a panic rally is usually very considerable and it is not usually influenced by values.
J. IL Williston & Co., who were thought to have been heavily short of the market for customers and to have covered on the break, were putting out Reading. Union Pacific and Amalgamated Copper in the afternoon.
Spencer Trask & Co., who bought 25,000 shares of various stocks largely in fractional amounts, were taking them on investment orders.
The largest volume of buying on the forenoon rally was by what the traders call bear houses. Such a recovery usually owes its strengtli very largely to the covering of shorts. It is always severely tested after the first flurry is over by the distribution of stocks bought to protect during the panic break. A market in such circumstances is technically rather weak because many of the shorts are eliminated.	. "
London gave valuable support to the market, buying about 50,000 shares, including practically all the active in" ternationals. After midday on late orders from the curb in London there was some disposition to distribute part of this, but the purchases on balance were still very substantial.
Counting the stock bought on Thursday's break, London has taken about 100.000 shares in two days which probably shows a small profit, although a good deal of it was executed at the higher prices on Thursday morning. The incidental weakness of our exchange seems to indicate that finance bills are being sold and that this stock represents the transfer of New York holdings to the London market to lighten the load carried here. Stock bought in this manner is apt to be distributed as the market becomes more normal.
It is authoritatively stated in well-posted banking circles that, the response for margins was remarkably good on the call which was sent out by banks and brokers on Thursday night. Every legitimate commission house is in good shape. The banks are prepared to protect concerns doing a legitimate business as distinguished from houses which have been gambling for their own account.
A. A. Housmnn says that he bought upwards of 75.000 shares on Thursday and practicaiy as much on the previous day. This stock is paid for outr’ght and will be taken otf tile market.
One highly satisfactory feature of the situation is the presence in Wall street of the bargain ’minting investor in great force. Brokerage offices were nearly as full as the gallery of the stock exchange and that was crowded to its utmost capacity. The investment buying should make its influence felt, although it is still only a relatively small factor in the enormous volume of transactions.
Responsible banking interests say that they expect to be able to put in practically all the 325.000.000 govern-1 meat fours by the beginning of next week. A good many of these a>e put. up as security for deposits aow, but this is merely a matter of substituting other bonds.
Smith, Heck ■St Co., who were large sellers early in lhe week, Ixnight about fifteen thousand shares round the room after 11 o'clock.
it is rumored that as a result of the recent invesliga- ' tion and the hostile public opinion created thereby, Mr. Harriman may lose control of the Union Pacific to the extent nt. least of being forced to take a less autocratic part in its management.	;
Among the important investment buying of the day was that by T. A. McIntyre & Co., who' took something in excess of 80.000 shares in the forenoon, very largely in odd lots. They reported that the orders came from up state, Chicago and -ven further west and from the south, besides a heavy local business.
The rally in the Hill-Morgan group was relatively less considerable than that elsewhere. It was iftdeed so moderate as to give the idea that the Morgan interest was witling that the market* should take care of itself, even i if it involved further losses for the supposed objects of the attack on the general list. This is rather in line with some guesses as to where the principal losses were made, i
In spite of rather violent fluctuations Canadian Pa-' cific showed good buying.	The stock is in demand flat '
in the loan crowd indicating that it is scarce in the street in spite of the general liquidation. This might be explained if the arbitrage houses had sold the stock here to arrive, but they say they have not done so in any quantity.
Although the general market rallied some investment securities made new low records. Of these Consolidated Gas was conspicuous in the opening trading. This is of course not a question of values. It simply means that somebody with a weak position in unsaleable stocks is protecting it by selling other securities at a sacrifice.
It will be noticed that Reading is no longer the most active stock cn the list. Amalgamated Copper took first place for the first time in a long period with Union Pacific a close second. These three stocks were responsible for 36% of the business, but activity was well distributed us . no less than twenty-six stocks crossed the 10,000-share mark.
William Rockefeller's ■ reassuring remarks on the situation had some influence but not as much as they might have done when there were stiil believers in the infallability of 26 Broadway. It is net doubted that he and his friends have been buying stocks, as he says. It is, however, justly remarked that there is considerable difference between buying what .you have got to take when you are already loaded up, and buying because you really want the stocks.
. There is just a possibility that his year London may r.ot get the usual Saturday holiday after Good Friday. Easter falls unusually early and just about quarter day,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.