FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: HEAVY OPENING AND CONTINUOUS REACTION. New Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 26, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
HEAVY OPENING AND CONTINUOUS REACTION.
.1- . / - " • ■ • • ..
New Buying on Saturday's Rally Fails to Develop— -Liquidation in Missouri Pacific and Atchison-- ?
.	• Bear Traders Active in the Market ’ :	'
-	Leaders—A Weak Close.	‘
Stocks opened heavy, showing no disposition to -resume the rally of Saturday. Their action in that respect was most, disappointing, and almost immediately the tone became, decidedly weak, with considerable pressure of liquidation in Missouri Pacific. Atchison, and less active issues. The bear party naturally sold the market leaders, materially helped by the .fact that the recovery of Saturday had reduced the superficial short interest, although prdb-ably tlie old bear account is as large as it was. The borrowing demand seems to shdw that there is plenty of short selling, but the. market nevertheless gives plain indications of the liquidation of collateral in loans, and in such circumstances the professional position1 is still to sell, stocks every time they develop strength. Naturally the arguments which had been regarded as bullish on. Saturday were looked at from the other point of view, although it could hardly be said that the general situation showed material change. It is impossible to say how much of the position remains unliquidated. We must be approaching the end, but for all signs to the contrary, the ticker does not indicate that it is any closer than it was six months ago. In such circumstances it need hardly be said that individual considerations in the matter of maintained earnings or dividend yield cut no figure at all. There is of course still a reasonably good investment demand for small lots, but against this there is liquidation of bonds, noticeably U. S. Steel 5s, and tlie one movement for the moment more than counter-balances the other. The market sold off practically without a rally throughout the day, closing at the bottom.
Among the railroad stocks Missouri Pacific lost 4 points, St. Paul, Great Northern, Northern Pacific, and less active issues 3, Union Pacific, Pennsylvania, and Atch. ison 2, and almost everything else a point or more. There were no exceptions of consequence.
The industrials were almost equally depressed, with the principal pressure in the copper stocks, Smelters and the U. S. Steel issues, which constitute the active section of that group. The tractions were weak, but not active.
Contrary to their usual custom on the night before the trading for the new account begins in London, foreign houses did not buy stocks. They are decidedly bearish, ann are talking of the maturing of loans made for American account early in the summer.
One reason for the weakness in- Missouri Pacific and the bear talk on that stock is that E. H. Harriman may retaliate on the Goulds if they support Stuyvesant Fish in the Illinois Central fight.
II. L Nicholas sold stocks round the room during the day, but paid special attention to Missouri Pacific. J. J. Manning was also a seller of that stock, and as a rule traders had the selling orders. The professional theory is that some considerable holder is liquidating in advance of the dividend meeting in December.
Atchison common was for sale where the market would take it, and usually on a concession from the transaction previously recorded. Collateral in maturing time Joans is the explanation which was given last week, and seems to lit the present selling.	%
London was a seller of about 20,000 shares on balance. Of this probably one-half was in U. S. Steel com-, mon. The buying for foreign account was inconsiderable. Foreign houses generally reported a nominal market on the curb in London.
• Apart from the selling of U. S. Steel the London trading was about what ni ght have been expected on the eve of the fortnightly settlement, .<nd represented the usual evening up before the commencement of the new account. It is probable that the speculative account in London has been reduced by this time to its lowest possible proportions. The genera! inference is that the U. S. Steel sold during the day was long stock.
Specialists who are willing to discuss such a point at all, say that there ir no preat number of. stop-loss orders lower down in tlie active stocks. This is natural, as commission houses are carrying so little, but helps, as it tends to check bear raids.
Heavy selling of U. S. Steel common by Post & Flagg was largely responsible for the depressed tone in that issue early. This looked as if it might be,foreign selling, but the stock was probably also sympathetically influenced by the persistent liquidation in the sinking fund fives.
Ilalle & Stieglitz were early sellers of St. Paul. Smelters, and other stocks, and were fairly typical of the class of commission house selling. Commission houses still find themselves unable to carry stocks on margin in any quantity sufficiently large to offset the weakness which develops after Ihe superficial short interest is.reduced by rallies such as that of Saturday. ' '	-‘■'■•t.---	. ,
Advice- from Chicago arc conflicting, but houses with connections there say that there has been a good deal of selling in the aggregate from that point during the past fortnight, and that such realizing is not concluded. The same remark probably applies to Pittsburg, to judge by the forenoon sales of U. S. Steel sinking fund fives.
C. B. Macdonald and other active traders were among the sellers of stock in the early trading, paying special attention to St. l’aul and Southern Pacific. They took the short side when the early loan crowd disclosed a much lighter borrowing demand for stocks.
In the early reaction in Union Pacific from the strong close of Saturday, Foster & Lounsbery were among the more conspicuous sellers. From this and other selling traders believed that short stocks which had been covered on j.he rally were being put out again. The bear party is still very much alive, and so long as commission houses do not. care U> buy in quantity on margin, seem prepared to attack the market on any raiiy.
The buying of B. R. T. in the decline below 30, while nqt aggressive or indicating any special extension of speculation on the long side, looks well informed. A good many people who were never in sympathy with the old Flower pool in the stock, but knew a great deal about the properly, have been keeping in close touch with recent market movements.
St. Paul seems inclined to sag on n very moderate volume of business. There is a good demand for it in the loan crowd, and probably some bear account, but the professionals s.till believe the stock is being borrowed to givo the impression of scarcity in order to make a market for what remains to be liquidated.
There is a suspicion of distribution in Steel common among the traders, who judge from the way it ch celts when it reaches the neighborhood of 24. It has not rallied with Lhe confidence shown in some of the railroad stocks, and the Morgan houses are no longer openly active.
With the usual exceptions, the loaning rate was fl per cent. New York Central and Pennsylvania are still in some demand flat, while Union Pacific and Steel common are apparently the most oversold of the active stocks. The borrowing demand is mainly by active bear houses, and was, perhaps, not quite so large as it had been on Saturday.	.
Reading made up .22 per cent, of the day’s business, and was easily the most active stock. There was rather more general activity than *on Friday, as eleven issues exceeded 10,000 shares, and Southern Pacific .closely approached that figure.	'
To-day is the first day of the London settlement, and transactions after midday, London time, are for new account, carrying credit up to November 28.
NATIONAL BANK CIRCULATION.
■ Washington—National bank notes outstanding: Currency, $642,150,641; gold notes, $75,025; total $642,225,666. National bank notes issued, six days, $14,016,280; national bank notes destroyed, six days, $3,135,557.
HAMILTON BANK.
A meeting of the depositors in the Hamilton Bank will be held to-night in the hall of St. Joseph’s Church, Washington Avenue near 177th Street, to protest against the continuance of the receivership.
NATIONAL BANWj-XTENDED.
Washington—Corporate exigence of national bank extended:	.	r . '	•
The First National Bank of Centralia, Kan-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.