FEATURES OF THE MARKET: A SEMI-PANIC. The Severest Decline in Many ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 15, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.	_
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
A SEMI-PANIC.
The Severest Decline in Many Years—No Effective Support and Stocks Close at the Bottom,
Only for a few minutes at the opening did the market respond to the higher range of prices sent from London* and only then because the arbitrage houses were buying stocks. Throughout the forenoon the price movement was erratic but even at midday some rallying power was shown. The support almost looked effective, particularly in the Morgan group. No confirmation has been forthcoming for financial trouble stories. Shorts seemed willing enough to cover and the most bearish traders would have liked a better level to sell on. Before 13:30, however* the market was in full retreat and during the rest of the day recorded a net docline which makes some of the sharpest panic breaks in the history of Wall street look modest by comparison. Throughout the slump there was no piece of news that said anything half so grave as the ticker was telling in recording declines of point niter point in stocks of high dividend yield and earning capacity. There was, in fact, no news at all and this perhaps is the most alarming sympton. It has been said before that Wall street is not afraid of a situation it understands. When the explanation for a decline is forthcoming it is safe to say that the decline is over. With the decline of Wednesday and Thursday the big banker was as utterly puzzled us the small speculator. I7_"____x	*“*
was talking battle, murder tion on so gigantic a scale possibility. Such stocks its not sell down 20 points in holder has the most urgent
Nobody knew anything except the tape and that ’	‘ and sudden death. Manipula-
is, of course, a ridiculous im-Rcading and Union Pacific do a day unless some very large _______ __ ___	 .	need to liquidate. Call moneymay have exercised some influence but the tightness in that connection is not an unusual development of the middle oi March. The close was very weak and practically at the lowest of the day.__________.
Union Pacific and Reading both lost 20 paints, Delaware & Hudson 19, and every other railroad stock from one to eight points with a 5-point decline about the average. There were no advances whatever.
The industrials, which had made a fairly good showing relatively to the railroads on Wednesday, were as weak as anything. Amalgamated Capper and American Smelting lost 18 points. National Lead 12, Sloss-Sheflield as much, and other specialties in proportion. The tractions were weak with B. R. T. very' demoralized,
A. A. Housman & Co., who bought 40,900 shares of various stocks round the room on Wednesday--afternoon, bought 15.000 Union Pacific in the first hour. Traders regarded this as part of the plans to support the market by the Morgan and other interests.
Halle & Stieglitz, who were large buyers of stocks or. Wednesday, had Northern Pacific for sale in considerable quantity.
J. Carlisle, the specialist, offered American Sugar down and stop loss orders were caught in quantity on the decline. There appears to have been a Washington bull account of some size.
It was hal'd to disentangle particular traders out of the large volume of selling ami buying which was going forward in the forenoon, tut the buying of stocks by H. Content, who was the heaviest seller in the early trading on Wednesday, stood out conspicuously. This looked like short covering and gave seme encouragement where it was rather badly needed.
C. B. Macdoimld who was a seller of the Harriman stocks in quantity on Wednesday was one of tile heaviest early sellers of Union Pacific.
Foreign houses reported that they did not consider tile ... . . .. , . [)ven New they
two failures in London important and that there had no attempt in any real volume to liquidate stocks for York in the London market. In these circumstances were among the early buyers of stocks.
Including the 15.000 Union Pacific bought in the
Including the 15.000 Union Pacific bought in the first hour, A. A. Housman <Sr Co. bought. 75.0011 shares or more of various stocks round the room. This was about the heaviest of the supporting purchases, but other active houses had large orders as well.
In spite of the erratic action of the stock, traders thought the inlying in Atchi-ion looked good, and particularly that by 8. N. Warren & Co., and Vail Emburgh & Atterbury. Both houses were taking the stock in considerable quantity.
London gave very valuable support to the market and at midday was estimated to have bought at least 75,000 shares, continuing to buy stocks actively from the cu"b after the close. The buying was well distributed through cut the international list, including all stocks of any importance. The sales were inconsiderable.
The support from London was of such a character :i-to give the impression that at least one of the strongesj financial interests here had enlisted tile help of their foreign friends to prevent the market from getting altogether out of hand. Money was in strong demand abroad and seems likely to continue so, although it should be remembered thaf purchases made now in the London market have not to be paid for before March 2.th.
The really remarkable feature of the market is that nobody can give a reason for the severity of the decline which really satisfies himself. This applies equally to bankers anil brokers. Generally in such a market it is only the commission houses who are really guessing, but in this case the largest interests in the street are obviously puzzled.
Traders were gunning for stop orders in Reading with great success. Francke, Thompson & Kobb, H. L. Langh-aar and H. Clews & Co. sold 50,000 shares amongst them all said to come from the same source. Some authorities believe a very large operator has been obliged to unload a line which was being accumulated.
Call money was' an influence of considerable importance throughout the day, and naturally added to the anxiety of the commission houses. In this respect however tiie-decline itself has simplified the speculative situation enormously. The money required to carry the account onen now.is trifling to what would have been needed even a week ago.
Foster & Lounsbery, who have been heavy sellers of stocks and particularly Amalgamated for some days past, were noticeably large buyers of Union Pacific and U. S. Steel on the afternoon drive. Traders on the floor thought they were covering on shorts.
In the loan crowd the general rate was 9%. Wi.th such a high nite the bear account was not difficult to conceal and the demand for stocks was lighter than it had been on Wednesday. Canadian Pacific and Southern Railway preferred were both in demand and have been scarce for some time past.	.
. Even in panics like that of the 9th day of May the net declines were nothing like so great as those recorded during the day. There was no panic, which makes the liquidation more serious. The collapse came moreover after a very long decline and even lit that was much worse than the break which happens as a matter of course when the public is pyramiding at the top.
Amalgamated Copper was surely weak enough to have shaken out the preposterous Lawson following. The price has in fact declined-considerably over 30 points since his efforts made the bull account in it look ridiculous.
It is curious that every center seems to be hearing of trouble in some other center, while reporting all well with itself. Boston was talking about failures in New York. New York was talking of a panic in the Boston copper stocks. London was exercised about grave financial trouble here. New York thought.there might be trouble abroad, but could seo nothing in the local situation to alarm anybody.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.