FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A GENERAL AND WELL SUSTAINED RECOVERY. ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 25, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A GENERAL AND WELL SUSTAINED RECOVERY.
Stocks Improve From the Opening on Sueecss of Treasury Certificates—^Vigorous' Covering Movement by
Shorts—Closing Prices the Best of the Dau.
Storks opened firm, anti from the outset showed an advancing tendency. Within the first ten minutes the lead-ct.s had mostly gained a paint or more. They continued to advance throughout the short day’s trading, closing practically at the top. The movenim?. seemed very largely in the ■ nature of coveting of shirts, and was probably stimulated i by the sanguine accounts from Washington of the success :of the Treasury certificate issue. If it has served its purin '•tsloring confidence and bringing out horaded casn ' r. good deal will he forgiven, as abnormal diseases may ! fairly call for abnormal remedies. At least, the market gets time to pull itself together, and can post.jnne paying i the dwtTs bill for a long enough time to bling about a i healthy ami even easy' money market. Although the fori ligncrs were selling, a little slock on the rally, the effect on foreign sentiment is good, and is likely to be reflected i abroad in the coming werk. The market is a somewhat : pi-ofe.-sional affair, and it is not proved yet that it has the
•	power to rally after the professional shorts have covered.
Among tho railroad stocks, .-Atchison gained 3 points, , Delaware & Hudron as much, while Atlantic Coast, North: west. St. Paul, Eric first preferred, Great Northern, Nor; ■hern Pacific, Pennsylvania. Reading, and Sinil.hem Pacific wore all from 2 to 3 points higher. It will be seen that this includes practically the whole active list.
:	The.industrials were equally strc'ng. with t:hc mo.-.-.
' considerable advances in Smellers and the copper stocks ard the U. S. Steal issue.-. P>. R. T. was lhe strongest and most active of the tracti.n.r.	■
:	Clark, Dodge & Co. were about the most, important of
j the buyers in St. Paul. The bear account there is quite ; considerable, when the relative activity of the stock is i 1 eniembered. There is plenty of bear talk on it still, but
•	the liquidation of some collateral in loans has been completed, and the position in that respect is stronger.
•	Active traders who have been very bearish were prominent among the buyers. C. H. DeWitt, who has not had any enthusiastic belief in the market for a year or more, was among the heaviest buyers of Reading, and is credited with having contributed a good deal of strength to that stock.
Some of the heaviest of the purchases were for the up-town bear element, which began to cover shorts on Thursday. The stocks chiefly affected were Reading, Union Pacific. Smelters, Amalgamated Copper, St. Paul, and even B. R. T. Most of these stocks have been in some demand in the loan crowd lately.
Sales were less easy to trace than purchases, but. were scattering in character. It was thought that London sold a little stock, although foreign houses generally reported a very indifferent market to trade in on the London curb. U. S. Steel—E. Meyer, Jf., sold 1,000.	.
J. S. liache & Co. were responsible for some of the early strength in Steel common, carrying the price above 24 on fairly heavy purchases. The buying looked good and was of a mure miscellaneous character than it has been lately. It is not easy to guess the attitude of the -Morgan houses on the stock, as one of the most active of them traded both ways.	-
Smith, Heck <& Co. anil other houses with similar affiliations, were buyers of Smelters, U. S. Steel and the. active industrials.' Traders thought this had some of the appearance of short covering. At any rate it can be said that the most active bears with few exceptions are now decidedly more anxious about not overstaying their market thun they were a week ago. -•
The best bull argument in -the early trading and the one most, used by the wire houses in their advices to customers was tlie satisfactory report from Washington on the subscription to the Treasury 3s. It is not considered that their usefulness in drawing out hoarded money 1ms been demonstrated, but brokers say the premium on currency is running off anyway.
B. R. T. made a strung showing, advancing over a point, almost immediately. A great deal of confidence luis been inspired by the creditable showing the executive officers of the road have made before lhe Public Service Commission.	_______
As soon as U. S. Steel common touched 24, some good selling developed. It will be remembered that supporting orders became effective whenever the price neared 22 in the past week. That stock comes out on rallies, and 24 seems to be the upper limit. In ten trading days, or since the stock crossed 25; on Nov. 12, 513,000 shares have changed hands without the price once going below 22. An exactly similar position was revealed between 2" and 30. What is indicated is either the distribution of u large line, with the market supported to help it out, or accumulation, with the market checked by sales at 24 or over. Either of these conclusions may be true, and one of them almost certainly is.	_______
In the loan crowd the general rate was G%. St. Pauf was again in strong denland flat, as were also New York-Central and Pennsylvania. Steel preferred, Reading and. less active issues loaned at 5% and under. Some shorts had apparently covered, and there had been n large roturn of Atchison common lately.	..
Although there was only two hours of trailing, the-totral sales easily exceeded those of . the full day on I'riday. The market nevertheless was not broadly active, as seven stocks only crossed thd 10,000-share mark, and these among them made up 10% of the business.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.