FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: BAD BREAK IN THE COPPER STOCKS. Stocks Open ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Oct 17, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
, ■> BAD BREAK IN THE COPPERSTOCKS.
Stocks Open Firm But Sell Off in Sympathy With United Copper Collapse Outside — One Failure An- 1	.
nounced— Railrad Stocks Rally at . '	_	-
’	. the Last But Suffer With	*	1
.	the General List.	'
At the opening the market was quiet and fairly firm, with the transactions above the closing figures of the previous day, although by no means up to the London quotations. The weakest feature was the tendency to become dull on the rally and, while rhe selling in the first hour was not aggressive, it was plain that short stock was being put out. By midday this influence 'was a considerable factor and the tone was extremely heavy. In the early afternoon there was a severe break, chiefly in the copper stocks and Smelters, which, however, was shared more or less by the rest of the list. There was a hopeless,market for specialties, as a break cf 18 points in Third Avenue, which sold down to 25, plainly shows. ■ The decline in the copper gioup was the result of the wild gambling in United Copper en the curb, in which at .least one reputable Stock Exchange house was concerned as the failure of Gross & Kleeberg in the last hour indicated. This is no market for fireworks of that character, and in the present temper of th,e Street such performances tend effectually to kill reviving confidence. The feeling in the Street was decidedly bitter, as the conservative banking houses have always been inclined to criticise financial interests committed to a special group of securities openly using banks where their influence is paramount to take care of such ventures. In the process of reforming itself, which Wall Street has embarked upon in spite of itself, this is the kind of thing which is likely to be reformed out of existence. Very little sympathy therefore is wasted upon the securities involved in such combinations, the best feeling of the Street being that the worst that could be known would merely mean the removal of a source of danger. The close was woak, but above lowest.
Among the railroad stocks Missouri Pacific lost nearly six points, Northern Pacific and Union three, and most of the otners a point and upwards. Kansas City Southern pfd. was a firm exception.
The industrials were very weak with’ declines of from three to six points in Smelters and other active issues, and substantial >osses in the copper group. The tractions outside of Third .n.venue were steady.
M. K. & T. common made as good a response to the London price as any stock on the list. Its advance is very reassuring on the condition of the Amsterdam market which has rtccntly been a source of alarm. There is almost a controlling interest in Dutch hands, but the stock still seems to be securely held.	■
American Sugar made a fair showing, although it is still said that the holdings of the Standard Oil following, acquired early in 1901, have been considerably reduced. Lower Wan Street would oe actively bullish on the outlook but ior the fear of further liquidation of thi; character.
■' While there is still a good deal of bearish talk among the professionals, banking houses are decidedly more cheerful. They are beginning to see their way in the demand for money for commercial purposes, and report less pressure than they had anticipated in the matter of renewals. The congestion in the warehouses is relieved mainly by purchases of goods for the West. The same houses report that they find a decidedly better inquiry for bonds.
Atwood, Violet! & Co. and other houses with Western connections bought Union Pacific early. The New Street bear contingent, however, to judge by the way its members talk, intended to make a bear argument of the Illinois Central fight whichever way it resulted.
T. A. McIntyre & Co., who were the heaviest early sellers of Anaconda, checked attempts to rally that stock. There is reason to suspect that their selling was for an exceptionally well-informed foreign interest.
On the easy early rally in B. R. T., A. H. Cnspary and other active' traders appeared to be putting out stock. There is said to be a considerable short interest, although the stock is always easy enough to borrow in the loan crowd, perhaps because there are a good many collaterals which the banks like better in loans.” 1	;
Ilalle & Stieglitz were the heaviest sellers of Reading in the morning. Upon the whole the stock seemed to be well taken, but there was enough realizing of this character to cheek attempts to bid up. Traders were watching that stock and Union Pacific very closely and seemed willing enough to hammer either oh any appearance of fresh liquidation.
About the best buying in Steel common was that by Clark, Dodge & Co., and it evidently carried a good deal of weight with the traders. Specialists say, however, that the stock is still very difficult to raise, and, even after the considerable decline of the recent past, are unable to decide whether there is not renewed distribution of long stock on any strength.
Some fairly heavy selling of U. S. Steel by houses with Pittsburg connections developed towards , midday. There is some bear talk, but at least one active section of the traders thinks that on further depression buyers will be found in anticipation of the quarterly statement which is due Oct. 29.
Some of the selling in Amalgamated Copper was understood to be for an uptown speculator who claims to have done well on the short side in the recent past.
London bought stocks to the extent of about ten thousand shares early, and continued a purchaser even on the curb, although not to any large extent. The arbitrage was good while it lasted, but it did not last long. Transactions were fairly well distributed over the active international list.
About the only sales for foreign account were in the copper stocks. The fluctuations in United Copper have created a disagreeable effect abroad at a time when the copper market there is quite sufficiently unsettled to check foreign buying. It is sometimes forgotten thnt Anaconda is very extensively held abroad. ’ A good deal of that stock has been coming over here in the past three months.
J. .T. Manning was one of the heaviest sellers of Amalgamated Copper in the afternoon, and forced the price below 50. S. H. Pell & Co., who are supposed to trade for an active bear clique sold the stock also, but bought it on the decline. There was other buying which looked like the covering of shorts.
The selling of Smelters would have looked like a bear drive, but for the weakness in the preferred stock. This looked like long holdings and revived some of the rumors current at the end of last week.
One of,the most responsible banking houses expressed tho opinion that the soundness of all institutions in New York was one of the most striking features of,the position. They did not believe that unsoundness was traceable outside second rate speculative houses concerned in a limited group of stocks where public interest is small.
One of the bear arguments used on the tparket was the rumor.of a split between the Heinze and Morse interests, one of the results of which was said to have been the serious break in Consolidated Steamship bonds on the curb.	'
In the loan crowd the general rate was	Steel,
common was in demand at 3% and the preferred at 2%, while some Pennsylvania loaned flat, which was also the rate at which New York Central was adjusted. . Allowing’ for the harder tendency of money and the higher general rate, there was a stronger demand for stocks than there had been on the previous day.'.
■ It is some time since the market showed a million shares for a day’s business, but in spite of the larger volume a little analysis indicates rather narrow trading. Five stocks, Reading,'Union Pacific, Amalgamated, Smelters and Steel common, active in the order named, made up two-thirds of the business among them, or 680,000 shares, and only nine other stocks crossed the 10,000 share mark. This certainly does,qot-indicate any real breadth in the trading.
The London market to-day is likely to be governed to a considerable extent by the showing in the Bank of England's return. The'renewed weakness here and a poor showing in that respect .would .be calculated to revive foreign selling, although -the foreign markets .are .probably very thoroughly liquidated.	~ • .a
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.