FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A SHARP RALLY AFTER EARLY HESITATION. ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 27, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.	.	.
A SHARP RALLY AFTER EARLY HESITATION.
Clearer Understanding With Paris in Case of Further Gold Requirements Stimulates a Recovery After a Heavy Opening—Union Pacific Still the	-
Leader—Liquidation in Specialties
Suspended—A Strong Close.
In the first half .hour or- so the market was rather heavy and even showed some disposition to sag. There was, however, no serious pressure, and on the failure of fresh liquidation to make itself felt professionals changed their position, bidding the market un with considerable success, tielore an hour had elapsed a good rally .had developed, and stocks continued to gain ground practically up to the close of the market. There were one or two weak spots at first, but these disappeared before the day was far advanced. The academic bull argument was the apparently authoritative announcement about the willingness of the Bank of France to release gold to this market if necessary. This is a decided factor in restoring confidence. It has indeed frequently happened that the expression of such willingness has helped to restore the equilibrium.of a disturbed money market without any gold shipments at all. It could not be said that the premium on currency, which is of course a most important factor in exchange at present, showed any change. If anything it was stiffer at the close of the market. Trading was largely professional, and in such conditions everything depends upon the point of view. The movement to even up over the Thanksgiving holiday, also would probably tend to stimulate the covering of shorts. The weakest jxiint technically in the market is the Street’s very restricted capacity for carrying stocks on margin. This of course creates a condition where prices advance so long as shorts cover and sell off when no other buying is forthcoming. This will right itself with the return of easier money, but in the meantime gives an air of unreality to all recoveries.
Among the railroad stocks Northern Pacific gained 3 points, B. & O., Northwest, St Paul, Great Northern, New-York Central, Pennsylvania, Reading and Union Pacific all two points or more, while advances were the rule in the less active issues without exception of consequence.
The industrials showed a better tone, with gains of a point or more in the copper and steel stocks, American Smelting and others. B. R. T. was strong at an advance of nearly 3 points, but the other tractions were neglected.
New York Central was slow to respond to the advance in London, where the making up price of 96 for the settlement is equal to 93 % here. The only comment on the note issue is that it may meet the most urgent needs but is quite insufficient, for the large amount of financing which must be undertaken for the terminal work.
J. J. Manning, who was very active on the selling side in Monday’s decline, was again prominent, and was responsible for the heavy tone in Steel common after the opening.
S. H. Pell & Co. and other houses active on the short side in the recent past were conspicuous among the early sellers of union Pacific. The head of one of the strongest and most active commission houses says that nothing would please him better than a real rally in the market, but that so long as shorts can be covered with the ease attaching to that operation at present, his customers will continue on the bear side. He remarks not unjustly that commissions from bear operators are better than no commissions at all.
American Smelting was at first an exception to the early rally. The heaviest of the selling came through A. Eckstein, the specialist, and was therefore not to be traced from the floor. There is reason to believe, however, that a sterling loan matures this week, in which Smelters forms the principal collateral.
During the present week and early in December a number of finance bills, which were sold during tlie summer with stock put up against them as ciiilatcral. will | mature. The foreign bouses sold stocks on Monday on the i knowledge of this fact.	■
I G. M. Minzeshcimcr and E. Wassennann rallied Reading in the first hour, the former buying altogether about five thousand shares. The stock seems oversold, and is in demand in the loan crowd under the usual rati’. It has figured rather largely in the odd lot buying lately, and has many friends among conservative commission houses, wdio base their advice to customers on the undoubtedly large earning capacity and t’.io maintenance of earnings.
Foster & Lninisbnry. who were conspicuous sellers of stocks on Monday, were active in the early selling of St. Paul. Against this, other Imuses with active bear customers seemed to lie covering shorts. The deposition to even tip for tho Thanksgiving holiday is already becoming a factor in tlie trading.
One of the arguments most used in tho rally was the willingness -d the Bank of France to part with gold. There was a revival on the floor of the old story of the bank taking some of our Treasury issues. It may be said at once that under the French code this is impassible. The gold engagements, however, are taken by the foreign houses as a leg.timate bull argument.
J. B. Russell & Co. were noticeably active in the rally. They were, p-rhaps, the largest buyers of Union Pacific in the second hour, and were also a factor in the reprisals on the shorts in Smelters.
London was a very inconsiderable factor in the forenoon trading. The foreign houses sold stock on the rally, but rather unexpectedly bought on the weak opening. Transactions were purely arbitrage and did nut amount to more than 15.000 shares all told, about evenly divided.
Upon the whole the lamdon attitude was disappointing. Stocks abroad did not recover their contango, or interest up to December 13, until after our market hud opened, when there was not much margin for arbitrage. With seventeen days’ credit it was rather disappointing that new buying had not developed in London, especially as the settlement there disclosed a noticeably small bin I account.
In the afternoon E. F. Hutton & Co., who have been borrowers of stock lately, and have done a good deal of business for active operators on the bear side, appeared to be putting out Union Pacific quietly on the general strength.
One of the influences tending to stimulate the market was the easier tendency of call money. Representative commission houses, however, say xthat time money is still too scarce to warrant them in taking any extended position for margin customers.
B. R. T. rallied as well as anything on the list, recovering nearly three points of its recent decline. So far from the Ivins inquiry having influenced the road’s affairs unfavorably, an officer of tlie company said that he saw his way more clearly than he had done at any time in the history of the property.
Foreign houses who hesitated to buy stocks at the opening, when they could have got them cheaply, w.ent home long of the market, believing that with the trading for the new account London would be in a frame of mind to respond to the rally here.'
Union Pac.—Ball & Whicher sold 1,000.
In the loan crowd the general rate was G$Z, but more stocks were loaning at 5% thun on Monday. In addition to those stocks which are normally scarce, like Pennsylvania and New York Central, B. R. T. was in demand at 5%, and some now bear account made itself felt in Louisville at the same rate. The rally no doubt caused some shorts to cover, but a number of them have not changed their position.	_______ .
The London settlement proceeds to-day and concludes on Thursday. Although thy last day of the settlement coinciding with the day for action on the Bank rate, money seems upon the whole to be working easier abroad, in spite of the requirements for the end of the month. One good reason for this is that a general speculative account open in London and Paris is even smaller than it is here.
Reading and Union Pacific between them made up 40% of the business. This is a larger proportion than on Monday, and indicates a narrower market, as only eight other stocks exceeded 10,000 shares.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.