FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A SEVERE DECLINE. Stocks Break Below Panic ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 26, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	-	,-	- ■	...	... .. -. . ....
TEATUKES OF THF MARICFT second. Five stoicks—U. S. Steel, Amalgamated Copper,
.	..?	: 111E 1I1AK11.E1.	Pennsylvania, Reading-and Union Pacific made up rather
more than one^half of the trading.- In spite of this activity A SEVERE DECLINE	was fairl>’ general as the heavy volume of transactions
...	"	shows.	.	•	.	_
Stocks Break Below Panic Figurcs^-Pool Boldings Under
Pressure.
Stocks opened a little firmer in places and for a moment held their rally, 'helped by the buying for foreign account. London was trading for the new account and the fortnight’s credit , there brought buyers as it usually does. From the outset, however, it was obvious that the feeling was nervous and unsettled. It is probable that the speculative account open for the rise is small, but the investor has been thoroughly scared and it was stock of this kind which was brought out on.Mome of the most reckless bear selling in years. There were serious declines in the forenoon with the Hill stocks conspicuously weak and everything else more or less under pressure. Attack was concentrated later on such closely held pool stocks as American Smelting and it was obvious that othei- groups of the same character were attacked also. The whole market was sold without a single concrete item of real bear intelligence developing. Bankers who are usually well posted and well poised on . severe declines in the market seemed to be as much at sea as anybody else. Wall Street in fact cannot see its way and would probably be all the better for knowing some definite fact, however disturbing, than for a period of uncertainty in which it can see only the downward current of stocks and form no reliable .opinion as to the source of the flood.' Some of the selling in ordinary times would be considered beneath contempt. The big bears are out and the little bears are in, but they cover at a profit and go short again finding the market weaker each time. It need hardly be said that the low record for the panic went overboard in many cases, while the average prices of twenty active railroad stocks and twelve industrials easily broke the p.anic low in both instances. This is fbch-nicjljy a bad sign in the reaction after a panic. The market closed weak but above lowest in places.
Among the railroad stocks Gt. Northern preferred lost six points, St. Paul, Reading and Union Pacific five, Baltimore & Ohio four, and everything else from onp to three points, with Pennsylvania and Canadian Pacific the only stocks of any consequence higher on the day.
The industrials for the first time in the decline were weaker than the railroad group with heavy losses in Smelters. Copper, Steel and all the standard issues. Tractions were very weak.
London gave very important support to the market in the early trading buying at least 50,000 shares. These wkerc weil distributed over the general list, but included Canadian Pacific. Union Pacific, Erie and Reading in considerable quantity. Later the arbitrage houses sold about 15,000 shares.
The differences between London and New York prices in view of the rapid break here were extraordinary. One arbitrage house had a buying order in Canadian’Pacific at 160^4 and was able to execute it nt 156. It is worth saying that it was reported at that price to the London house. It usually is even although the house mentioned could easily have credited itself with the difference, a fact which London is sometimes apt to forget. Every foreign house iiad reassuring advices from the other side.
New York houses were heavy sellers of Copper stocks ; ir. Boston throughout the day. This was in line with the i weakness in Amalgamated Copper and other copper issues. ■ Granby for instance showed n loss of 19 points between | sales and the curb quotations were demoralized.
! Traders thought Wassermann Bros.’ selling of B. <t O. was long stock, but seem to think that the following of that house has liquidated its Canadian Pacific.
Arbitrage houses lmught stocks over night, believing that it would not be difficult to rally the London market before our opening.
Perhaps one of the most interesting developments is the flood of gratuitous bear news which comes into the hands of the collectors of that article at present. The telephone is the usual vehicle. Personal introductions are not necessary, but stories of “trouble” everywhere of tlie wildest character are handed out in the hope of publication. They directly contradict every report carrying the slightest authority.
Moore & Schley and Hollister & Babcock were picking up Northern Pacific and checked the bear selling by the floor traders.	’
There can be very little doubt that two of the objects of attack are the Guggenheim pool in Smelters and perhaps National" Lead and the pool which has been behind the Southern Steel stocks. In the present state of the market the demonstration looks serious, although indications which would have been indisputable a fortnight ago shmv overselling in very dangerous places.
Whiio C. Schumacher * Co., who bought 20.000 shares of Pennsylvania and H. Content, who took 12,000. were probably covering shorts, Lazelle, Mathews & Co. and other large buyers seemed to be taking long stock.
Gold engagements in London did a good deal to rally tho market in the forenoon. Highly competent authorities say that this indicates that the Bank of England is convinced of the financial soundness of the situation in London. The Bank could easily have forced the price of bar gold to 78s. Id., as it did once before, and the fact that we were allowed to secure gold at only 1 %<!. above the mint price of 77s. 9d. shows that there was no serious opposition.
Foster & Lounsbery, who have been prominent on the short side, were heavy.sellers of Union Pacific and Amalgamated Copper in the first hour.
C. G. Gates & Co. were sellers of stocks all round the '.oom in the early weakness and brokers sometimes associated with James R. Keene’s operations were employed to sell also.
The copper stocks were depressed on the sharp decline in the price of spot copper in London of over £5 a ton. This was accentuated by the further fall of Rio Tinto where the rest of the London market was inclined to rally. Tho bears are saying that contraction in railroad improve-, ments, especially by New Haven and kindred roads would materially alter the copper trade outlook.
Canadian Pacific rallied a little on the recovery in London, although the movement here was much weaker than on the other side. The best support came from buying orders through the foreign houses who think that the extent of the continental liquidation in London has now been seen.
A good deal of importance is attached in well informed quarters to the remarkable showing of the National Pity Hank in the bank statement with an increase of nearly $12,006,000 in loans when the other banks showed small changes or decreases. This is taken as showing where most of the support in the market is coming from, and as representing stock loans against purchases by the Standard Oil party. There is reason for saying that deliveries of at least 200,000 shares have been traced to that quarter.
American Smelting loaned flat at tho opening.
There -was heavy buying of Canadian Pacific on the early decline here for foreign account by L. Von Hoffman & Co., S. H. Rosenblatt & Co., and other foreign houses.
Great Northern Ore Lands certificates were the weakest of the Hill group. As one trader said: “They are not like Great Northern. People have not had them long enough to get fond of them.” As the decline in the stock market dates from inc announcement of their issue, even the immediate Hill following are dissembling their love, just now.	i
The weakness in Republic Iron & Steel and Sloss-Sheffield was interesting in view of the fact that no sale i Tennessee Coal & Iron was recorded at the time the o were declining. There is absolutely no market for but it is satisfactory to notice that some	e other
southern steel properties can be sold at a priceTin view of the fact that the controlling interest in all is in the hands of one group.	,
In the loan crowd the general rate was 6% to 8% with tho largest borrowing demand seen in years. A good deal of this and especially that in Pennsylvania may very easily be disguised long stock, but the bear account is enormous. ^Pennsylvania, Canadian Pacific, Smelters, Southern Rail-&1V preferred and U. S. Steel stocks all loaned below the tL‘Wl rate.	_______ ,	~
!,firSjeW- stool, common took first place in the trading for for ’vi'me since James R.. Keene originally distributed Morgan. Amalgamated Copper was a close.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.