FEATURES OF THE MARKET: AN ORDERLY PANIC. Stocks Open Weak in ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 14, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
AN ORDERLY PANIC. t	;
Stocks Open Weak in Sympathy With London and Made the Heaviest Losses Recorded Without Actually
Getting Out of Hand,
Stocks opened weak and lower, entirely sympathizing with the severe decline recorded in London before our opening.. The foreign houses were heavy sellers, and as it turned out secured the best prices of the day. The market from the outset was full of rumors, not one of which was confirmed, but the feature was the demoralized selling of ?ill stocks for which there was any market, at all, especially alter midday when tne sr-op loss ureters were being reached in quantity. The most definite single influence was unquestionably the money market, and this must necessarily be a factor of great importance for the rest of the week, although the impression is that rates should case off a little before they stiffen again at the end of the quarter. A good deal of manipulation was apparent in the early trading, but the liquidation was genuine enough when once it started. There was very littla attempt at concealment and stocks were sold for what they would fetch, regardless of price movements, with a recklessness which bordered on panic several times during the course oi the day. It could scarcely be said that anything got actually out of hand, however, but the liquidation was of the most insistent character, obviously surprising the bears themselves whose success must have exceeded their wildest dreams. The liquidation still bears the character of realizing regardless of values by wealthy interests who have lost their nerve. The lack of confidence indeed which is usually seen at such times only in small sneculative houses is to-day just as prevalent in high banking circles. Covering of shorts was the only support at the last.
No less than four railroad stocks lost upward of ten points, these being Great Northern preferred, Northern Pacific Reading, and Union Pacific. Declines of three to six points were- the rule, and anything less was quite exceptional. A stock in fact which did not fall more than a point was exceptionally strong.	’
The industrials shared the general tendency with the severest declines in Ainnlgamateil Copper, Anaconda, U. S. Steel, and the railroad equipment issues. The tractions were equally weak.
Missouri Pacific held well in spite of the decline elsewhere on George Gould’s interview, and the appearance of Stuyvesant Fish on the board of the road, which is thought to add an element of strength. The Gould estimate of SV-jfJ earned on the stuck in the fiscal year terminating June .TOth is considered sanguine in places but the earnings are good and the road has been comparatively lucky in the matter of weather.
Spencer Trask & Co. were among the most noteworthy early buyers of Amalgamated Copper.	,
Halle & Stieglitz and other active houses bought U. S. -Realty on the dividend, which is the firs: since reorgan iza-1 tion. The Gates party arc credited with plans tn make a : market in which tn distribute the stock more widely.	!
A. O. Brown <Sr Co. were supposed to be covering shorts in Union Pacific when they bought 5.000 shares in the first hour. The heaviest selling came from Caspary and H. Content, who sold 25.000 shares between them. Hostile legislation in Nebraska w:is one of the side reasons given for offering the stock down.
Cutting & Co., who were buyers of Atchison in considerable quantity on Tuesday, were again taking that stock in substantial volume. It is noteworthy that the same house which was quite the heaviest seller of Pennsylvania on Monday and Tuesday was buying that and other stockf in quantity
The coincidence of the attack on Great Northern and Northern Pacific immediately on the departure of J. P. Morgan excited comment. Houses most prominently identified with the Hill interest were executing tho orders. Some disappointment was expressed that Mr. Morgan did not wait for the conference of railroad presidents with the administration. but on the other hand if the situation had really been disturbed it was thought that he would have waited a little longer.	*
The Hoffman House contingent were again very active on tho bear side. E. F. Hutton, Caspary and H. Content seemed tn hr attending to the market end and chose Union Pacific as the must influential stock to hammer.
. Canadian Pacific immediately sympathized with the decline in the stock in London. Any financial disturbance there or in Berlin would directly affect the stock as it has always been largely held on the continent. The German hlodings :n particular are quite considerable.
London wits quite a heavy seller and probably to tho extent of 45.000 shares. There was no buying for foreign account. The sales included most of the active inter nationals, hut the selling of Steel common was heavy and not less than 10,000 shares.
The foreign houses all reported that they could got no confirmation of the rumor of trouble in Berlin. They expected small failures in London, but did not think that anything important of that nature was hanging over the market. An account for a Paris speculator was liquidated in London, but it is understood that no failure is in. volved.
Sheffield & McCullough, who were among the buyers in the raFy at the beginning of the week, sold Union Pacific, Izntisville, Canadian Pacific, U. S. Steel, and Reading in considerable quantity.
One of the largest of the foreign bankers says that we are worrying about trouble in Europe, and they are worrying about trouble hero. He thinks the chances are that both ar? wrong.
.After midday stocks ran close to demoralization point and Reading in particular very nearly got out of hand. Close inquiry among the highest financial authorities reveals no individual weakness, but indicates the question of money here and abroad has once more become acute. Rates in Berlin and Amsterdam are stringent. Paris is raising obstacles to withdrawals of gold. London would not hesitate to restore the bank rate if any great pressure were put upon her. Tho demand for money there is so good that a large New York bank is actually lending 30-day money in London at 7$;,
In addition to this it must be remembered that $50,000,000 of Pennsylvania notes and $35,000,000 of Northwest not-s fall due immediately, while the Union Pacific payment of something over $40,000,000 -for its B. & O. purchase is to bo made ibis week and involves calling of loans as the money is lent in the street.
Even on the severe decline C. B. Macdonald was conspicuous among the sellers of the Harriman stocks. Foster & Lounsbery, who sold early in the week, were once more sellers of Copper. H. Content was probably putting out as much stock as anybody and paid special attention to Reading. The buying was a good deal more difficult to trace, but a good part of it came from houses who sold at the opening on Tuesday. ________
A. A. Hausman & Co. bought about 40,000 shares of various stocks round the room in the afternoon doing something to support. Van Emburgh & Atterbury also were large buyers throughout the day and probably took ns much stock as any one else. Halle & Stieglitz are credited with the buying of 25,000 shares and houses of a like standing seemed to buy more stock than they sold.
The most experienced traders in the street say they never saw such a break in the market without a panic. The room in fact called it an orderly panic and in the sense that rich men were throwing over stocks irrespective of values the phrase is not a bad one.
In the loan crowd the general rate was 7% and some stocks loaned as high as 875. A small premium was paid on Southern Railway preferred and Canadian Pacific loaned flat. There was a good demand for Pennsylvania.
The decline of 3.01 in the average price of twenty active railroad stocks is the largest recorded without a panic. A somewhat similar decline in the market was made before the panic of May 9, 1901, but stocks were then at the top of a long advance instead of the low point of the most serious decline in recent years.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.