FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A STRONG RALLY. Treasury Deposits Check the ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 27, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEAIURESflFTSE=MARKEI
• ■	■■■?/ A/STRONG ^ALLY. .	'	•	/'
Treasury Deposits Cheek the :Bressitre' and Organized Banking Support Causes a Big Advance and ■ .
'.x ■	- ‘Heavy Covering of Shorts. ..	/ '
. r There was a drive at the market in the first hour which was remarkably successfpl while it lasted, but tlie effort was exhausted before 11 o’clock., -.By that time a rally had sot in of sufficient vigor to establish the best recovery since March 15 and 16, and'to hold it up to the close. The London prices had no particular influence and were disregarded, although abritrageurs gave considerable help by buying stocks in fair'quantity at the only time they were weak during the day. The buying throughout was aggressive and naturally stimulated a heavy volume of short covering. The action of the treasury, which might -appropriately have come some days ago with considerably more usefulness, was the early stimulating influence, backed by mb ch better ca-operation among the interests which took upon themselves to restore confidence through the price list. Stocks had evidently been oversold and the market lent itself as a bear market constantly does to a ra£id rally. The volume of business was lighter than on the previous day, and after midday the tone was much quieter but everything was acting in a healthy'Way. Attempts to depress prices by selling blocks of stock as low as possible, frequently successful in sthe past, was frustrated by the readiness of the market to digest .such stock, which was immediately snapped up. At the close there was naturally some recession from the best prices of the day, but. the close was very good and the rally looked like holding. Traders who sold stock to even up their bookn on the day reported that such sales were readily taken and that they found shorts covering on any small recession. .	.
Among the railroad stocks Delaware & Hudson, Northern Pacific, Union Pacific, and Great Northern preferred all gained upward of 6 points, Canadian Pacific advanced points, Baltimore & Ohio, St. Paul, Northwestern, Louisville, nnd Reading all 4 points and more, and everything also front 1 to 3 paints.	•
Tho industrials were scarcely so strong as this, but the copper stocks and United States Steel made substantial gains and Smelters advanced over 5 points. The tractions were firm, but only moderately, active.	,
One of tho contribu »ry Influences was Jhe way in which calls for margin on loans by the banks and on stocks epen for commission hou <e-customers were responded to. This is one of the most astonishing features of the long decline and is as remarkable now as it wa's at the beginning of the slump. It is undeniable evidence that the losses have been distributed among rich men and explains the absence of failures. '
Arising out of J. P. Morgan’s known attitude in London and his reported instructions to his house here to support the market, came another rumor of a conference of representatives of private banking houses at the Union League Club on Monday night. The object is said to have beer, to arrange a plan of co-operation to rally the market. The rumor looks rather more likely to have been a consequence of the rally than the cause of it.
There is some reason for saying that while there is no single organized pool to support the market there is a very definite understanding between certain groups in the matter of checking bear raiding. The idea is to restore a level of confidence quietly without any violent upward movement. It is thought that in this action special attention will be paid to Union Pacific and St. Paul.
It is interesting to note that stop loss orders of shorts were caught in quantity on the rally, particularly in Amalgamated Copper, Smelters and the Hill and Harriman groups. Aii these stocks are still heavily oversold.
The voting to close the exchange both on Friday and Saturday was virtually unanimous. There is a strong feeling that the governors of the Stock Exchange share the general belief that a rest would be about the "best thing that could happen after the violent fluctuations of the past. The situation is materially simplified by the fact that London closes from Thursday night till Tuesday morning. *
With the tape running some minutes behind the market, commission houses were very much at sea in the early trading. It was almost impossible to get. quotations from the floor, and they changed so quickly that they were not worth haring when five minutes old. In crowds like that in Smelters or Amalgamated Copper prices on opposite sides of the post were sometimes a point apart at the same moment.
Attention is still largely concentrated on the Guggenheim pool and the sons are probably being asked to. face a test which would not have been applied had the father been alive. The-experience is a new one and tlie bear party is taking considerable chances on the short side to test rhe strength of the family backbone. Some very good judges think the pool will win out.
The further severe decline of £6 .a ton in copper in London, accompanied by u decline of £2 10s. in Rio Tinto, a retarding influence on the copper stocks. There has been heavy liquidation in the Boston copper group and a good deal of this is reflected in the situation here. Bears claim that the speculative position in this department is very unsafe.*
The buying by Rutter & Gross rallied the Copper stocks after the first drive. This of course is called inside support and is in line with the purchase of some 15,000 shares of Amalgamated by Flower & Co. on Monday. Commission houses report that there is considerably less Amalgamated Copper in the street than there was a week ago and noticeably little Anaconda.
The early borrowing demand showed that there is still a very large short interest. It is likely, however, that some bears covered on Monday’s drive. S. H. Peli & Co. in particular who are credited with doing a good deal of the Walker business bought 75,000 shares at that time.	.
London bought about 25,000 shares at the opening and sold some 10,000 of these on the advance. The purchases included the Harriman stocks, U. S. Steel common and preferred and Atchison in considerable quantity. The sales were distributed over the International list.
Arbitrage houses very generally reported more encouraging advices from London. They considered that the weak spots there had been discovered and provided for and believed the position to be essentially sound. They were looking for failures at the conclusion of tho settlement, but none of importance, and considered the international houses were in an especially strong position. London in fact still believes that the heaviest losses in American stocks there have been for account of New York speculators.
In spite of the selling of some 10,000 shares by A. 0. Brown & Co. Amalgamated Copper acted well and advanced in the afternoon with similar sales. Traders think that shorts covered were being put out again and although this has been done successfully so far-there are indications that it may be done too often.
Arbitrage houses bought stocks over night, believing that. London would respond to the rally, establishing a higher range of prices before our opening. They found considerable disposition to buy stocks on the curb in London up to a late hour.	t
Amalgamated Copper was the most active stock on the list with U. S. Steel next and Reading only in the third place. Union Pacific was* the other stock which crossed the 100,000-share mark and these four'issues made up 407*? of the business.
In the loan crowd the general rate .was 6% with some' reduction in the borrowing demand which was, however, Btill large. A. 0. Brown & Co. returned a good deal of Steel common borrowed. The demand for Amalgamated, Copper was better than it has been although the stock loaned above the usual rate. Pennsylvania was in demand at 4% and Canadian Pacific at 2%.
It is said that bears of the Walker variety are very confident and-do not believe the decline is over. They were thought to be putting out shorts again in Amalgamated Copper and other stocks after covering in quantity on Monday.	.	-	.
The London settlement concludes to-day and we are likely'to know of any important failures there before our opening. A few people with small, liabilities might pay out their checks for differences, hoping for help at the last minute, and these would not be declared until the following day. Failures of that kind, however, are’never large.	.	.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.