FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A SERIOUS DECLINE. Heary Liquidation ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 22, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4	......... ....... ... . ....	.. .
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A SERIOUS DECLINE.
Heavy Liqwdation Throughout Only Offset by Short Covering—Rumors Plentiful But Unconfirmed —Some Rally at Close.
reputation of 'having^'beeiir tixe. heaviest liquidators on ;the day.	.	.	. ■<*'	'..	'	' :	’ *•'.	•;
Reading made up 24% of the day’s business, but Union Pacific exceeded 200,000 shares, and Amalgamated Copper, Smelters and U. S. Steel all crossed 100,000 shares. These five stocks in fact made up 900,000 shares of the day’s total of 1,355,000. Activity elsewhere was greater than it has been, however, as eleven other stocks crossed the 10,000 share mark.
At the opening the market was heavy and lower. No attention whatever was paid to the higher range of prices sent from London when it was found that the arbitrage purchases were not of serious consequence. Traders were very bearish finding stop loss orders caught in quantity after an ineffectual effort to hold the market in the first hour. One /‘peg*’- after another broke through and each successive collapse was followed by a sharper decline and liquidation which in quantity more than equaled the undoubtedly heavy bear selling. The lack of concrete explanation for the resumption of the downward movement was perhaps one of the most demoralizing factors. The Street thinks it. has about taken the measure of the crop scare rumors, and it is not at all afraid of the money situation. What it wanted to know was where the stock was coming from. Jn the interval of barely a month which has eiapsed since the last low point was reached on March 25, there has been no time to ro-establish a widely distributed bull account. It follows that the stock sold must have been mostly held within a very limited area and^ all efforts in the way of news gathering were directed towards discovering what large holder or powerful interest had been forced to unload. In these circumstances the number of %namcs possible is limited and as may well be imagined the rumors handed round were of a fairly definite and dangerous character. That liquidation in heavy volume did take place er. Monday and Tuesday, but particularly on Tuesday, there can be no manner of doubt find from the look of the market il would seem that one of the few remaining big bulls has finally lost hope. There was some small rally at the close, but notning that the covering of shorts would not amply explain.
Among the railroad stocks Union Pacific lost four points, Delaware & Hudson, the Hill stocks, Illinois Central, Reading and less active issues two points or more, while declines of a point and upwards were the rule. There were one or two relatively firm exceptions noticeably New York Central, and perhaps Canadian Pacific at the last.
The industrials were equally weak. Tennessee Coal & Iron lost <wor eight points. Smelters'on large transactions upwards ef seven, Consolidated Gas six, and other active issues from a point upward. Steel common was particular* Iv weak. The tractions shared the genera! tendency with severe pressure and a thro? point loss in B. R. T.
On the theory that some large weak account must be <n nr^fos.s of liquidation. there were plenty of rumors current and the bigger the names the more enjoyment they gave. A possibly more intelligible theory is that the followers of certain large operators have been asked to take care of themselves where help had previously been extended, and have been unable to do so.
Pho ably no stock had more sympathetic influence than IJ. S. Steel common after it broke through 33. There has never been any Morgan support worth mentioning, but hitherto the Standard Oil interest has been credited with taking tho stock on decline* even when opposing increased dividends.
Boar traders took fresh courage from the success of their efforts to break through the strong support afforded to Pennsylvania al 12() on Munday and. in the opening transactions. They immediately began to look for weak support elsewhere believing t.i.il some import:!:;, .stops would be caught in Smokers, Amalgamated Copper and other active industrials.
Stiebcl, Hcrnsheim & Co., who were heavy sellers ot Pennsylvania last week, were represented in the early selling of stocks, paying special attention to Reading.
The lack of support in so-called Standard Oil slocks, particularly St. Paul, and perhaps aho the Flower selling in Amalgamated Copper, gav” a generally bearish. impression. Miller & Co., who bought 20.000 shares of stocks round the room in the first twenty minutes, were thought to be covering shorts.
Interborough opened weaker than ever on tho new SI 000.000 note issue and the obvious anxiety of the traction companies to borrow all they can before the Pubiic Utilities law makes it necessary to secure permission. B. R. T. for the same reason was weak.	'
The extent of the bear account is cearing to interest traders as a bull argument. They say that it is probably not. more extensive now than it was when the market deci incd in March, and that it has proved quite insufficient t»> rally price.-’ without a public interest, which seems as iar off as ever. The weakness of stocks with trading in relatively small lots was not regarded as encouraging.
The heavy volume of liquidation in the first hour may bo judged from tho fact that E. R. Chapman bought 20, 00O shares of Reading on the way down and Miller & Co. •1,000, while there were other large buyers. Tho slock did not recover on such purchases, although they were supposed bo be covering shorts.
Canadian Pacific naturally lost some of the advance which had been put upon it tn take advantage of the holidays in London. London was an early seller hero and u was noteworthy that one of the most active of the western houses was putting out selling orders.
Traders arc bearish on the continued liquidation in the Flower stocks noticeably B. R. T.. Amalgamated Copper. Distillers and Paper, all of which showed signs of pressure.
Traders attached a good deal of importance to th:* heavy selling of U. S. Steel common by Simmons & Slade,-who put out at least	shares during the course of the
afternoon. They were largely responsible for the weakness in the stock. Floor traders called this good selling and followed the lead.
In spite of the severe tiecline arbitrage houses were not disposed to take much position over night, although they bought to a moderate extent in the international issues for which there is still a free mnrket in London. They complain that this realty limits them to some half dozen stocks.
London traded in abou? 20,000 shares and was estimated to have bought about 10,090 on balance. The purchases included the Harriman stocks and Atchison with a little Sleel. There was also some foreign buying of Canadian Pacific in very moderate quantity, but this was preceded by considerably heavier selling, perhaps indicating tha* the slock had been manipulated from this side in the Lander, market.
Taken altogether the London transactions were .about oh that could have, been expected. Lindon usually buys after a holiday on the other side, and the fortnightly settlement is still a full week away. Apart from this there h a strong sentiment of distrust; in Europe of condition* here, principally as applying tn the control of important corporations. This has led to some return of railroad notes originally placed abroad to this market.
The Street Was full of rumors o( n?w financing all of the vaguest and most indefinite kind. Perhaps the most concrete of these was one on Chicago & Alton. Traders take the fairly justifiable line that railroads always want money anyway, and that they will secure al! they can while the money market, permits.
One of the .underlying factors of permanent importance is the failure of the bond business to improve. Bond houses arc simply tied up with stuff they cannot sell, and so long as this is the fact the investment buying is obviously insufficient to absorb the open market liquidation.
•
There is some suspicion that part of the liquidation of Monday was for operators who will cease their official connection with Wall street en June 1. The impression Is that tho Standard Oil and Harriman interests withdrew their support from the market until this liquidation bad run its course.
One of the floor rumors is that James R. Keene hammered Smelters in the first hour’s trading and covered his shorts elsewhere on general weakness developed.
In the loan crowd the general rate was 2%. There was a good demand all round and special inquiry for Pennsylvania; Canadian Pacific, Atchison, Erie. Stools and other active stocks below the current rate. The bear account appeared to have been increased in the day.
Pittsburg is getting all the social advertising it wants thcBe times and will bo further gratified to know that two of its most prominent leaders divided between them the
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.