FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A STRONG RALLY SUSTAINED THROUGHOUT THE DA
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 30, 1907; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.	.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A STRONG RALLY SUSTAINED THROUGHOUT *	THE DAY. .	. ..	.
Reading and Union Pacific the Market Leaders; the Latter
Recovers Its 2^% Dividend—Early Weakness in Gould Stocks and New Low. Record for
.	Western Union — Stocks Close
Strong and at the Best of the Day.
At the-opening the market was quiet and firm, and for the most part above the closing prices of Wednesday. In the first hour there was a special development of weakness in the Gould stocks, sufficient for the moment to check the rally elsewhere. The advance, however, soon become strong enough to neglect this factor. By midday the recovery was well established under the lead of such old favorites as Reading and Union Pacific. The volume of business was good, and compared favorably with any day in the recent past. Prices continued to advance, and by 3 o’clock all the most active issues were strong and at the best figures of the day. The rally was natural and normal. The market has been dominated by the money market for a long time past. The evidences of ease in that direction are indisputable. The Bank of England return showed that the foreign markets were in better shape. A temporary tightening of the call rate on a Friday at the end of the month meant nothing, but the practical disappearance of the currency premium and time money looking for borrowers together mean a great deal. In such circumstances it will not take long before it is possible to carry stock on margin. It will then be seen whether all possible buyers have been driven out of the market or crippled in their capacity to buy stocks. It is true that the losses among large financiers have been enormous. That they amount to anything like a dominant percentage of the country’s buying capacity when it is in a humor to take stocks' no sensible man believes. The bear account is still large and was experiencing considerable discomfort during the day.
Among the railroad stocks, B. & O., Canadian Pacific, Illinois Central, and Reading ^11 gained three points or more; Atchison, Northwest, St. Paul, Delaware & Hudson, Louisville, Union Pacific and less active issues were all two points higher, while gains of a point were general, even Missouri Pacific advancing to that extent, and closing 3% points above the lowest.
The industrials were strong. Smelters advancing foui-points, and such leaders as Amalgamated Copper and the Steel stocks from one. to two points. Consolidated Gas gained nearly eight points and tractions were strong. .
United States Steel common ruled well above Wednesday's close, but the process of distributing the stock seems to continue. On the other hand it is admitted that the demand in the loan crowd is very large, while the delayin getting stock transferred shows how greatly the public holdings of the issue have been extended in the past few months.
Jacob Field was the most conspicuous seller of Western Union among the trailers, while E. Meyer, Jr., and other active professionals offered down Missouri Pacific Ona theory is that a large holder of the Gould stocks is in a weal; position, and the bear party is trying to force the liquidation of his account. T. A. McIntyre & Co. and E. F. Hutton A- (.'. were again heavy early sellers of Missouri Pacific.
In spite of tl-.e announced new issue of Canadian Pacific, the price of tile stock was advanced, mainly at the expense of the slorts. The new capitalization is not a bull argument, but ii must be remembered that such issues find a good market, in Europe.
T.lie factor of nio=t importance was the plentiful evidence of a return to normal money market conditions. The disappearance of the currency premium, a rather better offering of time money, and the improvement abroad more than offset some natural stiffening in the call rate on the last Friday of the month.	>
There is more, disposition to carry stock on margin for customers, and the facilities in this respect are likely to be considerably wider next week. The strongest houses in the Street have been buying slocks in anticipation of this, development.	.	.
Foreign houses were not an active factor in the trading, although they were molerate buyers of stocks on balance, and did not sell anything of consequence. The purchases for foreign account, probably totalled about 15,01)0 shares. These were fairly well distributed nnd included U. S. Steel and Reading in some quantity.
Foreign houses were not dissatisfied with the London attitude, especially as the money situation there was considered decidedly easier. The settlement is out of tlie way without disturbing incident, and, with any assurance of reviving confidence here, there are plenty of inducements to London to buy stocks, especially as they have not to be paid for on the other side until December 13. when the money situation is practically certain to be much easier.
Bear gossip for the moment takes the form of throwing doubts upon the early resumption of work in the steel districts and among the print mills of New England. Easier money, however, is expected to offset rumors of the kind, especially as many works were shut down on the inability to handle the wage question with the scarcity of currency.
AVas-ermann Bros, were again prominent among the buyers of Beading. On the great advance in 1905 they hail, perhaps, tile most powerful following in the Street in that particular stock, and were remarkably well informed on its movements. Traders are still inclined to follow their lead in the stock.	'
T. A. McIntyre & Co.’s representative on the floor reported that a good deal of the buying-came from shorts. Ho did not think that enough outside interest had developed to carry stocks far after tlie floor bear account had been covered.
Western Union, with a sale of 300 shares at 56, established a new low record for the year, and a lower figure than any recorded in 1893, its last and most serious previous depression. The price is now- back at the level where the great fights between.Jay Gould and Charles Woeris-hoefer took place. There is a bad market for the stock, but it is still well distributed and widely held.
Allan, McGraw & Co. were the heaviest early buyers of Reading, and were also conspicuous in other parts of the market on the same side. They were among the leaders in the buying which carried the market up on Wednesday. The stock sold seemed to be coming from houses with western connections.________
People who attach importance to charts will notice that Steel common made what is called a “long line" between 22 and 24, with transactions totalling something like 700~000 shares. Had the stock fallen to 21, heavy distribution would have been indicated. It has bn the contrary’ rallied to 25, which is an equally' good argument for accumulation in the recent past.
In spite of the advance foreign houses went home long of the market, believing that London would respond, in spite of the short day’s trading. That market is thoroughly sold out and ought to be easy to rally.
Reading made up 25% of the day's business, showing twice the number of transactions in Union Pacific, the rext most active stock, although it should be remembered that Reading is only half stock. The distribution of activity was decidedly better, as fourteen stocks altogether exceeded 10,000 shares, as against nine or ten in any dav this week.	________
One of the active bear houses had a rumor in the afternoon of rebate proceedings against United States Steal. It could not be said to have stimulated any .market movement, and has been threatened so often that the Street has ceased to concern itself greatly.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.