FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A FURTHER ADVANCE. Stocks Show General ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Apr 2, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
cue the sal* of JQ£QQ shares by H. Content cheeked any ■och buying movernoBtsad the stock hesitated, seen when Unfon Pacific -was ateuug. '
There is reMan to believe that S. EL Pdl A Co. cowed aborts to the extent of 100,000 share* at the end of last week. Another item of news which nay have some bearing on that fact is that the Lakewood leviathan operator has gone on an automobile trip.
In spite of the holiday abroad selling orders on the bulge in Canadian Pacific cam* from Brighton, England, (2J100 shares) Berlin, and London. It was noticeable also that foreign house* had some Union Pacific for sale, checking what'looked like a most promising early market advance.
It Is rather noteworthy that those complete plana extending over several months for the movement of the market, which used to be credited seriously to 26 Broadway and told in confidence to people with an extensive acquaintance, are not much heard of.
B. R. T. acted after its summer manner with considerable justification in view of the fine weather during the Easter holidays -and the heavy earnings in consequence. AU Indications point to an exceptionally large holiday business this year. The 10-csnt fare question is settled, the popularity of Coney Island is likely to be greater than ever and the facilities for handling traffic have been improved tn th* past winter. The Brady following, although badly caught on the long decline, is picking up its courage again.
There wns a fair amoont of business from the active commission houses of the burger class in the first hour. In this respect Halle A Stiegitte wero about as conspicuous as anybody particularly In St. PauL .	'
In the loan crowd the general rate was 3% per eenti, with a good borrowing demand. Pennsylvania was in sharp demand at per cent, but there was surprisingly little Canadian Pacific lending, although a small premium for the use was still exacted. Erie was wanted at2H per cent, and there was a good demand 1m- Steel -common. Tber* w ohviouvlv still a considerable bear account, as one house loaned 21,000 shares of various stocks, all at 3 per cent or under.
Reading wns no longer the most active stock, its place of leader being taken by Union Pacific. These two stocks with Amalgamated Copper made up 40 per cent, of the budncwl Activity was very fairly distributed, as some sixteen stocks crossed the 10,000 share mark, and three exceeded 125,006 share*.
London reopens to-day after its four days* Easter holiday.
The uutowr trader* had bull points on the President** attitude toward the railroads which were certainly ru»t borne out bj the authoritative communication published in these column*. The attempt to blame the President <or tne recent disturbance here seems to have lost its fascination to a good part of Wall street, anyway.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A FURTHER ADVANCE.
Stocits Nftoic General Strength at the Expense of the Shorts After Early Uncertainty.
At tec open-rg the -market was firm and very generally aooxe tne closing prices of Friday. Sentiment wok eheerfu: even if commission house orders outside of a weU defined group of clique houses were not much in evidence. A great* parr of the humnes* orighurted on the floor, nnd the day’s mevenent looked considerably manipulated anu more widely professional than it ha* been m the recent part. There was a little hesitation in tlie forenoon in spite o. some pyrotechnics in Canadian Pacific. and considerable iegitimate strength in Union Pacific. The short interest however wns sail very plainly m evidence, ahhougn reports were freely circulated that leading bean had covered. ™s may easily be true m port, although the loan,crowd shows on extended bear account. The day’s movements were ba*ed very largely on the technical market condition and explanations such as the possibility of some comfortable words from the President, or a peaceful *eUement of the western railroad labor situation, were the consequence of advances rather than the cause of them. The buying tn the afternoon was not altogether convincing althougn it was entirely effective. Houses associated with powerful financial interests in the popular imagination were cm-ployed to execute buying order? and generally there was a manifest desire to make the buying look as impressive as possible. The absence of any market in London was a material help as several stocks advanced during the day could easily have been checked by a few substantial arbitrage sales. The advance, however, was well maintained up to the lost and traders who bought stock then said that there was not a great deal in th* market.
Among the railroad stocks Delaware A Hudson gamed over four points, Uuion Pacific nearly as much, advances of from two to three points were shown in Atchison, St. Paul, Northwest and Pennsylvania, while gains of a point or so were the rule with few important exceptions.
The industrials moved up with the rest of the list with the best gams in ‘ Amalgamated Copper. .Smelters and American Sugar. The tractions were conspicuously strong, B. B. T. advancing nearly five points.
Arbitrage hons*s sold stock over night, although some of them thought tho advance was to some extent manipulated for its effect upon sentiment abroad. They doubted if it would have been possible had the foreign markets been open ard active. The general impression wns that they would get their stocks back cheaper in London, although they expected some manipulation there for a further-rise.	_______
It was noteworthy that J. R. Williston & Co. win were among tho heavie«t early sellers, bought the Harriman stocksThnd Reading on tlie afternoon advance.
J. R. Williston & Co..appeared as rather heavy sellers: of stocks toward* midday. They put out a line of some ; 15,000 Reading and were supplying Union Pacific in some i quantity. This house has been active in previous reactions.
Foreign houses reported Berlin a heavy seller, although in the absence of a London market there was of course no arbitrage trading. The sales for foreign ac-' count included Canadian Pacific, Union Pacific, Steel and the coalers in considerable quantity.
Canadian Pacific loaned at 1-16% premium for the use in the early loan crowd. This caught some stop loss orders, but on the advance the unexpected selling of 5,000 shares by S. Rosenblatt, one of the arbitrageurs, checked the manipulation for the rise. This was unexpected and the Jefferson Levy-Wassermann following thought it rather unfair on an Easter Monday London holiday.
The theory that a stock looks cheap with tho dividend off was hardly borne out in the case of Southern Pacific. The idea has received some rude shocks in the last few months and perhnp* th* action of a stock ex-dividend is os good an indication of publie interost as need be deriredy There i* often semi-investment buying, but in tho preogft
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.