FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: BRISK RISE AFTER WEAK OPENING. Low-Priced ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 3, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
‘ BRISK RISE AFTER WEAK OPENING!
Low-Priced Issues Lead in the Advance Which Soon Be-
■ comes General—Demand Not All from the Short
- Interest—Railroads and Industrials Both Strong—Brighter Outlook Con-
■	tributes to the Rally.
Stocks opened rather heavy and very generally' lower, reflecting a sharp decline in London and some substantial selling for foreign account. Traders could hardly have been said to be specially bearish, but plenty of them thought the rally of last week had been unduly rapid and were not unwilling to trade for a reaction. The market fulfilled their views up to midday, when most of the active issues were 14 to 1% per cent, below the closing prices of Saturday. From that point, however, a marked and striking change came over the situation. The first real movement in the other direction was in a number of low-priced issues, of which B. R. T. was the most conspicuous. The reason for such a movement is obvious. These are not expensive to carry, where the commission houses have to give serious consideration to the problem of handling any considerable line of stock standing well above par. The movement soon became general, Steel common taking up the running, and the two leading stocks, Reading and Union Pacific, recovering 'sharply. Upon the whole the market may’ be congratulated upon its action. It stood up fairly well under considerable pressure and advanced on buying, which for once in a while did not consist entirely of the covering of shorts. This in itself is a marked improvement in the technical position, representing a very welcome return to more normal conditions. No doubt a good deal of'attention was given to politics, which may easily become a factor of importance, but the Street is not crossing bridges till it comes to them, which in itself is a change for the better.	.
Among the railroad stocks Union Pacific preferred gained 5- points on 200 shares, Delaware & Hudson 4, Northern Pacific and Reading 3, and the other active issues very generally’ from 1 to 2 points. There were fractional declines in New York Central and one or two less active stocks.
The industrials closed equally strong, with the best advances in Amalgamated Copper, Smelters, Sugar, and the U. S. Steel issues. The tractions were conspicuously strong under the lead of B. R. T.
Atchison opened lower, influenced by the severe loss in net in the October earnings. Various explanations are given, including the new accounting and the heavy wage? bill, with lower rates. It is just possible that the officials were not over anxious to make a good showing, for reasons <’f policy.
Union Pacific gave indications of profit taking in the opening trading, and was sold for foreign account. Although Reading i? ofLen more extensively dealt in, Union Pacific :? still the real market leader. Tile support looked good. and some traders covered shorts on the first recession.
Although Amcrcan Smelt'ng has improved with the rest of the market since the beginning of last week, the stock seems to be fed out on advances from what would ordinarily be called well informed quarters. A. Eckstein, the specialist, always seems to have some stock for sale when tiic market broadens, although hitherto he has not pressed the stock at all. The nearness ef the action on the dividend is the best reason for the relatively large trading in the stock.
Some houses told their customers that there was a dis-i position to wait for the President’s message, although the contents of that document, seemed to be fairly general property. Chairman Fowier's utterances attracted some attention, and the general problem of currency legislation was undoubtedly a market factor.
One active commission house which has been very bearish said that it could get all the buying orders it wanted from customers, but was not taking a position on the long side, which would simply make it dependent on the call i money market. This is a risk it did not care to take.
i E. F. Hutton & Co., who do not seem to have changed 1 from the position they have taken on the bear side for a ’ long time past, were sellers of stocks in the early trading, ; putting out a considerable quantity of Union Pacific.
' Van Emburgh & Atterbury and other houses with con! nections in the Middle West, were sellers of U. S. Steel i in quantity. The heaviest selling of the common, liow-■ ever, came from London. Professionals were inclined to take the long side when the price crossed 25. but admit they were rather freely supplied. Bear traders say that a great deal of stock was bought to support the general market, and that it had been coming out in quantity.
J. S. Bache & Co. told their customers that the action of the market, was perfectly natural after the advance of last week. They were looking for the late raliy. Like other active commission houses, they say that their customers are willing to buy stocks in quantity with the old margin conditions restored. This, however, is a risk which no responsible house will take at present.
Chapman A- Seaman were among the heaviest buyers of Reading, which throughout was responsible for 25'/ of the business. There seemed to be short covering on the reaction.
'London was an important factor in the forenoon decline, selling stocks more freely than for some time past. The foreign sales are estimated to have included 15.009
U.	S. Steel common, and a substantial amount of other active internationals, making 40,000 shares in all.
The foreign selling seems to have been the result of profit taking sales in the London market made before our opening, in anticipation of a reaction here before the .publication of the President’s message. The London market is too narrow to absorb any great quantity of stock at present, and stiles made there for New York for the most part come back on this market, especially if there is a small turn in the arbitrage, as there was at the opening here.
One reason for the sharp move in B. R. T. was given as the early aliening of the tunnel which ought to give it more new business than it will take away, as passengers landing at Borough Hall will generally want to proceed further. The stock was evidently much oversold.
A better reason for the advance of such stocks as M., K. & T., Ontario & Western, B. R. T. and others is that people who cannot afford to carry high-priced issues on account of the restriction of margin trading can handle low-priced stocks like these, and are, in fact, doing so with beneficial effect, upon them and the rest of the market.
Wardwell & Adams were among the most conspicuous of the general commission houses in the last hour’s advance, taking about 15,000 shares of Union Pacific, Steel, Reading and other stocks round the room. Floor traders thought that this represented the covering of shorts put out prematurely through other houses in the forenoon depression.
Foreign houses went home long of the market, believing that the early sales for London would leave that market very much sold out before our opening, and, therefore, in an easy position to rally.
In spite of the stiff call money rate, the general loaning rate was 5%. Canadian Pacific, St. Paul and one or two other stocks which have recently’ continued, flat were easier to barrow’ at from 1 to 3%. The professional bear account on the day seems to have bean considerably induced, but there is a short position outstanding w’hich has apparently not experienced any important change.
While Reading, Union Pacific, Pennsylvania and Steel common made up more than half the day s total, fifteen stocks altogether exceeded 10,000 shares, which is a very fair showing of general activity. It compares favorably with any day in the recent past, and the same may be said of the day’s total transactions.
While there is a good deal of talk of currency and other legislation of a drastic character, the Street does not really expect anything very startling from Congress. The trading is based on the assumption that such things do not happen in the year of a presidential election. We are of course, likely, to be stimulated by freak bills for meeting present and prospective financial difficulties. They certainly are not alarming the Street, which seems likely’to go through its usual performance of forgetting ■real legislative needs with the return to normal conditions.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.