FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A GENERAL ADVANCE WITH GREAT STRENGTH IN REA Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jan 10, 1908;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A GENERAL ADVANCE WITH GREAT STRENGTH
IN READING.	'	'
Improvement Shown in First Hour—Advance Maintained Up to the Close—Some Hesitation in Spots, hut no Liquidation—Reduction in Paris ’Bank Rate Sentimental Influence	*
Public Still Hesitating— Top Prices as the „ Goug Sounds.
lighter than they have been in a, long period. American Sugar, Pennsylvania, New York Central and one or two others loaned below the-general rate, but there was nothing scarce anywhere.	■
There has been a rally in the twenty active railroad stocks in six weeks of 11.45 points. The price now is 92.86, , which is the highest since October 15. before the panic break. The most important part of the ra)ly has been a made since Christmas, or something like six points in a fortnight.
Stocks opened steady and were immediately taken in hand under the active leadership of Reading. That stock maintained its supremacy throughout-the day, but it was some little time before the whole market was willing to follow its lead. Low-priced issues especially were decidedly heavy during the forenoon, and it even looked as if some special manipulative orders were sent in in order to put a little stiffening into the backbone of such stocks as Eric, Missouri Pacific and Southern Railway. There is not a great deal to be said for the general movement. There was the usual absence of news which is characteristic of a rising market. Stocks are doubtless very much manipulated, with the clearest indications of matched orders, but it says something for the strength of the market that manipulation is possible in an upward direction. It is evident also that money lias been placed at the disposal of the operators who have the market in charge, as the money brokers are. looking for borrowers, where they were invisible to the; naked eye when everybody- wanted assistance and could not get it. It is in fact with considerable difficulty that; the time money rate is supported. The Bank of England, return showed an enormous inflow of loanable capital, and! it looks as if the same thing were occurring here. This is, of course a factor without which nothing could be done in the market, and on it the present earnest efforts are being made to attract the timid public. The advance con-’ tinned right up to the close, and rhe last prices were the best of tlie day.	.	t
' Among the railroad stocks Delaware & Hudson gained ;
5	points, Reading as much, Union Pacific and Baltimore
6	Ohio .3, Northwest, Great Northern and Louisville, Penn-; sylvania and St. Paul 2, and practically everything else a point or more. There were no declines of any consequence.!
The industrials were strong, with the Lest showing in Amalgamated Copper, Smelters, Sugar and Steel preferred. T>. R. T. was the strongest of the tractions, making the best gain in a long period.
The leadership on the bull side in Rending is still credited by people usually well informed to the active partner in a prominent foreign banking house. The First National Bank following and the Morgan interest are also thought to be cooperating. The bear traders say that the movement is made to facilitate further liquidation.
Great Western showed further decline on the early transactions by foreign houses. The receivership has created a bad impression in London, and one which undoubtedly influences their view on all stocks in this market. Foreign bankers arc sore that no effort was made here to save the road, if only for the effect on investing sentiment. ■
Loud and general complaints are current among the , brokerage houses about the delay in making the transfers of American Sugar. In hundred lots, such a trans- : for should not take more than twenty-four hours. A hundred-share certificate, deposited for transfer last Friday, was not released by the eompiny until Wednesday. As the commission houses cannot borrow money on stock in transfer, the hardship inflicted is very real. It also ere- ; ates a scarcity of the stock in the loan crowd, which may ; suit the purposes of tho so-called “insiders” in American ■ Sugar.
.1. J. Manning, J. R. Williston and other traders were employed to bid up Reading and buy stocks round the room ’ in the opening trading. The market was much manipu- * laid, matched orders being very plentiful.	j
When Reading had crossed 102 there was the most ex-s tensive covering of shorts which has been s<»en in the pres-; ent movement. A hear account of long standing must at-last have been forced in. It is said that part of the bull, account ir being aided by the sale of finance bills drawn on i Paris. Wnssennann Bros, and Henderson & Co. were the; heaviest early buyers.	|
One of tho encouraging developments reported hv a brokerage house with large connections in the dry goods district is that houses which a month ago could not discount paper at any price are now offered al! the renewals they want at file per rent. The brokerage house in qnes- • lion is. however, not very bullish.
One of the houses which has been a borrower of th S. Steel preferred for some time past was a buyer of that stock in considerable quantity. There is .-.ome foreign demand in the loan crowd, apparently dti“ to an artificial ; bear account created by stock sold to arrive.	{
A house which was cooperating in the advance in ’ Reading gave »uti selling orders in Union Pacific Northern ’ Pacific, nnd (heit Northern, but did no’- appear openly’ on the seliinp >ide.
There is a steady supply of Great Northern, which is not pressed for sale, but apparently all comes from about the same neighborhood. One important commission house has sold something like 40,000 shares in the past few days, and in tlie forenoon sold through traders about 7,000 more.
Ruttir & Gross were perhaps the most influential of tho early buyers of the Harriman stocks. They appear to find more resistance to tho advance here than had been shown in Reading. Tho bear account in them is probably not very large.	,
London was a seller of stocks on balance, although the foreign trading was in light volume and was not a market, influence. There was selling of Union Pacific from the London curb, but perhaps a little buying in one nr two unimportant stocks. Sales amounted to about 5,000 shares: on balance.	’	,
Foreign houses report that London so far has not re-: snonded to the advance in our market. The response of: tin- Morgan following abroad in particular has been very; disappointing. They have shown -complete indifference, vven when their own specialties in stocks were being free- j lv dealt in here. It is still said that, the Great Western receivership has unfavorably affected the foreign invest-' meat demand for all our securities.	-
A canvass of a number of connnision houses doing a ; good general business shows that there is not much publie interest in the market yet. Clique houses and those . with a connection amongst the large operators uptown ap- i pear to be doing the business. The orders from out of town arc especially small._________
One large and active commission house has been carrying several thousand shales of Atchison common on margin for over a year. This stock is for several customers in different places, who have made their margins good whenever called upon, holding on to what is perhaps without exception the most disheartening trading stock in the list.	________
At the close the market was very strong, and substantially nt the best prices of the day. Traders who sold stock bought early in following the advance, said that it was remarkably well taken. Trading up to the last was extremely professional.
Bulls of B. R. T. say that even one day’s experience has demonstrated that the subway to the Brooklyn Borough Hall feeds two passengers to B. R. T. for one it takes away. The stock acted remarkably well, nnd there was no need io revive the absurd dividend rumor.
Or. the advance in Reading, J.‘R. Williston, who had been specially a-ctive among the buyers in the first hour, sold a substantial lino of stock apparently accumulated nt that time. This was rather typical of the character ol the trading, but tho stock acted wonderfully well in spite of it.	________
Reading maintained its large proportion of business right up to the close, and showed 34% of the recorded sales. Union Pacific crossed the hundred thousand share mark for the first time in a long period.	eleven stocks ex-
ceeded 10,000 shares and two more- came within a few hundred shares of that figure, the showing of general activity was fair, although still much too restricted.
In the loan crowd the general rate was 5%, with much lighter demand all round. American Sugar and Reading were returned, and renewals generally were
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.