FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: STRONG RALLY, WITH ACTIVE TRADING.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 9, 1908;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	..	■■ - ■<■ -.. .. ...- .....
'Called ‘TcaBonably, axrtIve. > Thir ds a very respectable k^t compared /with what, we- have experienced recently, ;
>;:* Arbitrage heuees bought a little stock at the ©petoing and probably .took a chance overnight, going home-long Of the market on the idea that London would be advanced ■bstore, our-opening to stimulate the,buying here. Against this -it.must be remembered that .to-morrow is the first day of the settlement; and 'trading after midday/ Londoh time, -is tfoh new account.' ~ The disposition generally .is to wait before taking, on new commitments, as the customers, besidespaying a -commission for buying.the stock, pay a carryover commission at each settlement. . '	‘
. In the loan crowd renewals were not quite so general and there was evidence that a good- deal of stock had been returned. This is an indication of -the covering of shorts which takes place in an upward movement out of a very dull market.	.	-	-	. . . .
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
STRONG RALLY, WITH ACTIVE TRADING. .
Market Opened Strong and Advance Continues Until the Clone, With Prices at the Best of the Dau—Union Pacific and Heading Make Best Show-
•	.	tn/7—-Industrials Also Up,
At the opening the market was strong and above the closing prices of the previous day. The best-and most active recent movement against the shorts set in almost inv mediately, Within the first half hour an advance had developed which continued without material check up to the close. Professionals covered their shorts and took the long side, be»n-g, as they always are, largely without prejudice and willing to encourage any movement which promised active business. The movement was general and might oven be called broad for a Saturday. Profit-taking sales were well absorbed.- while the volume of business was an agreeable surprise. There is very little doubt that a substantial part of the buying consisted, of the covering of CO/11n^tnientK 0,1 }bc short side, and it remains to be seen whether the public will buy when such purchases are completed. This is the one question which can decide the permanence of the-rally. The decision to reopen the Knickerbocker Trust helped the advance, nnd it is also possible and even probable that some way,of reconciling the interests of the investing public with the~rcquirenicnts of the politician, bear a distinct reference arrived at or is in sight, best of the day.
• Among the railroad Union Pacific, all gained vanccs of two points and . .	... . . .............._
St. Paul, Delaware & Hudson. New York Central. Pennsyl-.vania. =and everything else benefited by ri point or so.
1 here were no declines of consequence. The industrials	"
showing in General nnd the U. S. Steel and gained ground, not very active.
— • The Clark, Dodge following is credited with the active movement in St. Paul., which some people connect with the announced early completion of the extension of the road. 'I here is a section of the traders which is bearish on the same fact, believing indeed that St. Paul's troubles will'begin about the time it starts competing'in territory which has hitherto been left tq the Hill and Harriman roads.	,
Missouri Pacific was the weak exception in the opening trading. The rally of the previous afternoon did not hold well, and the stock acted badly. There is more liquidation ?■> come, and so far the Gould support has been very inadequate.	*
Shorts were fairly on the run before the been open twenty minutes, and traders were ......	....
movement along, seeing promise af business that way nnd •valizing that bad , news was no longer effective in bringing long stock to market. The old bear rumors, including a forthcoming Presidential message, and the usual Washington gossip about the Harriman roads, came through about the usual sources, but lacked force, perhaps because the best that was hoped for them was that they would facilitate the covering of shorts.	-
i t T!‘e Har™,an following seems to have turned decidedly bullish. Friends of E. H. Harriman say that he has never been more cheerful than he is at present. The buying was .largely by brokers associated with the operations of this interest, who wore obviously working for higher prices, as they bid up freely all round the room.
One very encouraging sign was the report by u number of active houses that the public inquiry was very much ........... "	'	’	still light, for weeks the rut on This might develop into buying on little nine*.	.	■ P
which are partly moral and patriotic, no doubt, but. also
1... "	"	t(>	expenses, has .been
The close was strong and at the
stocks Northwest. Reading nnd three points or more, while nd-upwards were shown in B. & 0..
were generally strong, with the best Electric, Air Brake, Sugar, Smelters issues. J’he copper stocks were firm The tractions were also strong, hut
market hnd helping the
better, oven if commission house orders were People who have not been near their brokers have been asking whether the market is out of the bull side. ............................
further broadening.	.
• ■ ............ — ■ 4<*'
Washington houses were bullish and opc’bf the reports current i” —•'K	..- au-*.	,.?•*:— . -	.. . .
exchange rpcasures had been provided.for. ing that the favor will have to be rurf? ' penses, but this is no novelty in yrci
One of the best influence; ’	’
announced reopening of tfryKnic	...
been expected, •bufe^rtrrear t’ officers mi^lr been ha' of thajj by W
in such quarters was that the killing of anti-stock
r. There is a reel-
'd for in campaign ex-'esidential year.
fes of the trading was the
__ Knickerbocker Trust, This had fear that some action by state __ tfio .n permanent receivership has always nUg.over the market, and the effect of anything H would have been used to .its fullest extent r party.
with other houses recently active on the bear hide
Hutton & Co. were quite large buyers of stocks, nnd
have been talking bullish to their customers for some days.
They gave considerable activity to Atchison, . and were among the larger buyers of Reading and Union Pacific.
There 1ms been some buying of New York Air Brake
on the belief that the .postponed dividend will be declared
in the early future. The company is rapidly collecting its outstanding bills, and is still doing a substantial amount of work.
It is rumored that a number of high railroad officials
got together informally on Thursday and decided that if t wages were to be maintained to please the Administration nit would be necessary to advance rales. They say one or tjithe other is absolutely necessary, and 'the wage-earner’s ,5jA’0te counts for a whole lot in a Presidential year. There Aosiainly been some .buying of stocks on the strength jjr	"	...
B. & 0. has been bought on the chance that it would -advance with the rest of the list, which seems fair. The February earnings, however, are likely to prove'extremely disappointing, and only a little better in fact in net than those of January. .	________.	,,
Not only was Saturday the heaviest day’s trading of
the week., with only two hours to.Jo it In, but it was the I best showing since February 20f Of the 450,000 shares (recorded Reading msA^Jip. 2Xr, but nine stocks in all |«x/ic«led 10,000 shajj^|^^ .^.number of others could be
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.