FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: DEMORALIZATION IN THE GENERAL LIST.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Feb 24, 1909;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	-	_
Steel Ffii—iB ^WauV UatQ test weAtUxtoek iod bee* »o «tnirftFHW*i*wijbb SI and S2 that it ease to be Hi ought a* ’*frncgnff» tiarr Barhapa it was. At all rvsnta the aupport wMrii previously had appeared in the mazteet as often aa the stock drifted harlr to the level of S2 was last week abruptly withdrawn, and «ure then there ha* bem support only <m a scale down. It has looked aa if the scale were successively lowered.
Though the T^'^nad stocks bave held their places with much greater tenacity than the industrials, it is impossible that Steel common shoo id decline in this headlong manner without dragging the whole market down, and thus it is asserted on every hand that the market will not right itself wtil Steel common, on this level or some lower level, h^s recovered its balance. So long a" It continues to decline, liquidation will follow. When a price has been reached at which the supporting scale dhall cease to be lowered, the decline will be arrested and liquidation will abate. It is rather striking that nothing hopeful comes from the sources whence emanated ao much bull talk on Steel common at 55 a few wee^s ago. •
A moderate rally, chiefly on short covering, occurred in the second hour, and as prices improved the volume of transactions diminished. The better railroad stocks made the best recoveries. Union Pacific, Southern Pacific, Reading, Atchison and several others went back to Saturday’s closing prices.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
On a lower opened la*M week’s HcIIinjx movement ua** renewed anti continued .steadilj. Steel and Amalgamated leading;.
Touard mid-day the liquidation spread to rails, which previously had shown a grood deal of resistance and prices gjayc way in all departments.
The disappointing feature of the market was the failure of Steel common to rally in a manner corresponding to the violence of its decline. There was some large buying around 43, some-of it for long acount and some representing the covering of short contracts put out above 50. Traders on the floor were inclined to buy for a rally, a 10-point break in a week being a sufficient reason for doing so.
■ London was a heavy seller, and this, together with com' mission house liquidation, offset the buying referred to.
It is believed, however, that buying on a scale down would ; improve from this level to any lower one. There arc i already many to take the view that the condition of the steel trade, so far from having been made worse, is improved by this new policy, and that at all events the worst is known.
The foreign houses traded so actively on both sides of the market, buying rails and selling Steel, that their operation were hard to follow. On balance they bought ra:’-road stocks, but their sales of Steel common were heavy.
•	amounting, perhaps, to 50,000 shares, and this was enough i more than to cancel the amount of railroad stocks bought
net, so that the results of the day on the whole were sales
i of 30,000 or 35,000 shares, perhaps, more, on balance.
’ At noon the market began tn wait for the commodity : clause decision and at 1:30 o’clock it was still waiting. In ' the interim prices moved in a very fe-eri%h manner. Be-| tween 12 and 12:30 the whole active list was carried down
•	by a fresh wave of selling The fore? of it concentrated upon Reading, which broke 3 points in perpendicular fashion. Steel common at the same time touched a new low point below 43. There camo then a mild rally, but, as in tlie second hour, the activity dim’nished a« prices improved ever so little, and about 1 o’clock tho celling was renewed. The lowest .prices of the day so far in most of the act’Vc issues were made in the next half hour. A feature of this movement was pronounced weakness in Amalgamated Copper. which for the first time went below 70. The Harriman
•	issues, which earlier had receivei a better kind of support than was extended tn most stocks, gave way. too, Unicn Pn-
; cific making a now low price.
•	At the close the market was almost panicky. The low. est prices of the day were made in the last five minutes:
Hxperiation of an adverse decision in tlie eoinmoditii‘^ clause litigation rauM»ci flirt her general selling in tlie attrnioon. :iini Heading'particularly waA affected. At the close tlie market uas almost panicky.
I: veil b< necessary fir banking interc«t» to concert-ediv come i * the <uppor* of the *io-'k market to ’ iy, if sell-.r.g «uc i nvci whclmei prices in yesterday’s session <nould cont nuo Pr'ce: closed in extreme demoralization, and at tnc \erj lowest of -he day. From noon to nearly - '3o o’clock u wa. beh»*\-*d that the imminence of a deci-*• ’n at Washington adverse to tie coalei railroads in the l.t.gat on over the commodity clause of the Hepburn act was causing a b,t of fr.ghtened and hysterical liquidation, but after it wa- known th it no ikegmn m this matte’ wcu1 I be f«>’*th ’onnng. pnc*'-.. instead erf recover.ng at all; w.'”t .awe” st 1' ’File I.vavs1 pr.ee>- were made in t .»• la>t fixe n' rn. -. Read.ng leaning tin way A move vnkr.’ decline in value* wtu.m’ sonn calanmoa* piece of news to up«“t the «pccu! Uive nrnd is selaom witnessed Such losses a- 1<) point' )•' Rtad ng. nenrlx 5 in Steel common nnd 3 to •' point-* in a .-.ore o< ether important «*<>cks are rather .it -c~t-br.ak.nir u nrn compi es-o.l wth.n tlie limit- of five hou*'*-- trailing. Ye-te’d.iy wa- the -axf i consjcutive <i.»x of dcvhnt. The det line ye-teiday alone in the average price of 20 active ’atlro.ul -'b'-k- was 3.2.’ po.nts. There via* ab- ilutely n<» now - t<» explain it Tne only explanation opt could di-'c wer was th it Lqu d it'on ha i suddenly got beyond control It came from al’ «nrt* of places. 1: wa-. «trange to -»ax accelerated by niamp Ration not originating or. the 1loo»' of tlie S ock Exchange, but m myecr ou* higher place-.
There was a fav harrow* ng demand fo*- •dork* in the loan crowd. bu‘ borrower's had not the slightest difficulty in obtaining stocic*. During th*' mix the professional element covered it* .short von’rncts over and over. Tho selling w.i* sue n a~ tn carry price-- down through the float ng short intcie<.
The better cla-« of railroad stocks opened down only to	the maximum io*s occurring in Read’ng. Erie
was the weakest feature of the low-p’i ed rail-, conung down 1*» on heavy transactions The se’hng pressure at tne opening wa< mainly directed against Steel common and Amalgamated Chipper. Steel common opened with 12.000 share* running at IPi to 44’-*, and the next transaction but one was at 4414. showing :i loss of	from Satur-
days cluing Amalgamated Copper was somewhat !e<* act’ve at a decline of
I-n-t week’s decline, showing it* most acute manifestations right at the week’s end. hi ought in a lot of outside selling for the opening. The pronounced weakness of Amencan stocks in the London market over the holiday also afTect«.’d our opening.	.
* A general selling movement discovers the weak spots in the market, and the weakest things under moderate pressure are stocks in which a more or less arbitrary advance ha i taken place. In the last thiee or four months a num-oer or second and third-class stocks, normally not very active, were advanceci in many cases for no better reason than they were not very widely distributed and could bo easily advanced. As they were advanced they became distributed, and now* when the holders want tn sell they find a very poor market, tho pool* being in no hurry to take back' their goods.
Although Amalgamated Copper has found : new low-level. it has not so far been anything like fo weak as might reasonably bo looked for, with the state of the copper metal what it is, and with attention freshly called to it by recent developments in the steel trade. The stock is not so strongly held but that it can be brought out by declines; it cannot be as strongly held as was Steel common above 5(J, but the the decline has not run far enough in Amalgamated Copper to start any general involuntary selling. Another stock whoso stiength becomes rather conspicuous is American Smelting. In January it went below 80. It is still above the low* point touched at that time. There is said to be an obstinate bull pool in the stock, the average price of whose holdings is above current market quotation*.
From the opening price, which was down 1% per cent, from Saturday’s closing, Steel common went a point lower during the first hour, under heavy and unremitting selling pressure, and the gtneral market showed’n gradual broadening of the selling movement. London was a heavv seil-.r of stocks, especially Steel. Commission houses were sellers through the whole of the first hour, and many stop loss orders were uncovered. The Harriman stocks, espec lally Southern Pacific, were about tha best supported issues in the railroad list.	.
Steel common, it need hardly to be said, is the storm center of the market. It is now down 14 points from th’' high point of January and more than 17 points from the topmost quotation touched in the life of mat singular post-election boom, when the public carried the market for
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.