FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A DEMORALIZED BREAK; After a higher opening ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jun 4, 1910;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
evidence of important gelling; but if they were correct in the diagnosis, the market took the sales pretty well. .
Union Pacific Jed Ae reaction, but the selling for the most part came-from speculators who had bought on Thursday on the idea that the stock would look cheap when sell-, ing ex-dividend. Southern Pacific was relatively stronger than the stock of the controlling company, although affected by the latter's action.
The reports of high temperatures in the West were regarded as a favorable factor for as the crops have had abundant moisture and are now deeply rooted, a wave of hot, forcing weather would result in rapid growth.
The rank and file of commission houses, while conceding that tho market displayed better action than on recent days advised their customers to take ohly a trading position for tho present
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A demoralized break.
After a higher opening market broke to new low records for tlie year but showed some improvement towards end. Sales 1,492,853 shares.
It was a sorry day fd the bulls. Stecks opened at advances, but selling was nict and the opening quotations were practically the highest of the day* Half-hearted support was rendered after the lapse of a few minutes, but foiled to reassure sentiment, and at about eleven o'clock the downward movement was resumed. By about noon the decline became demoralized, and forccc| liquidation was seen in all the active issues. The room traders were bearish and attacked prices aggressively, catching stop orders and compelling speculative holders of stocks whose margins had become impaired to throw their lines upon the market. There was no evidence of anything like aggressive support, nnd although in the last hour or so,.a slight rally occurred, this was the result of the covering of shorts. Liquidation continued to the end of the session. Sentiment was not reassured by the action of the trunk lines and other groups of roadt in filing schedules* of advanced rates, for the belief prevailed that the administration would exhaust every resource before it permitted these companies to increase their rates, while restraining proposed increases or. the western roads. Rumors cf ctincella-tion of orders for equipment auc. of rauruad retrenchment in otner directions were current, nnd the belief was general that the Government’s attitude on the rate matter would result in sericus disturbance of general business. Oop news was favorably but it brought no consolation to holders of stocks whose margins had become attenuated, or who wctc fearful of a sUrnp in business such as might impair the ability ut corporations to maintain established dividends. The volume of transactions was in the neighborhood of 1,500.000 shares, ur comparatively little under the highest of the year, and nt the end of the session declines running from 2' to 5 points were shown through the active list.	_______
Renewed selling.
Stocks generally opened at advances of substantial fractions, but selling appeared to he met with and in ®1* moBt every ease the second transaction was at u lower price than the first Trading was moderately active, and Street sentiment still leaned to the bear side. **
Union Pacific, selling ex-dividend, opened at 175, the equivalent of an advance of % over Thursday’s closing, but tho stock almost immediately fell to a lower level. Southern Pacific was dull, nnd St. Paul was again heavy.
New York Central was not affected by the reports that the company was endeavoring to obtain a release from contracts placed by it for equipment, and the fact that the eastern lines have filed schedules of increased rates with the Interstate Commerce Commission seemed to have a good effect on this slock, Baltimore & Ohio, nnd other issues.	. ,	,	.
Reading started with a gain of which, however, it failed to maintain, although in some quarters it was asserted that the buying of this slock in the past couple of days has been of excellent quality.
Support rendered.
On the little recession from the opening prices, buying of an apparently good character was met with, nnd the market rallied somewhat. Among the largest houses there was u change of sentiment for the better, and careful observers said that much of the recent selling was for short account.
It wan argued that if the railroads did not feel confident that the courts would sustain them in their movement to increase rates, the trunk lines would not have disregarded the injunction secured against western roads and filed higher schedules with the commission. It was intimated that the Street might hear some good news on this whole question, within the next few days. There waat however, an utter lack of enthusiasm for the bull side.
Rock Isrand and Wabash preferred were notably strong among issues of their class, the buying being attributed to the London syndicate which has already secured representation in the Rock Island board.
Strength in Pennsylvania.
In the first hour while the market disclosed little real .tendency. It was argued that the worst aspect of the railroad matter was that disclosed when tlie Administration moved for an injunction against western lines, and that the news on this subject was quite likely to improve from now on. Buying power, however, was deficient.
Substantial strength was shown by Pennsylvania, and in conservative quarters it was .argued that the market position of the stock would be improved by the opening of the New York tunnels and terminals in the near future. The burden of cost of these enterprises which has heretofore been borne in fixed charges, without offset, will henceforth be relatively easier to carry.	4
A notable feature of the trading was the great preponderance of comparatively small lots, nearly all of'the transactions even in such stocks as Steel, and Reading bo-ing in amounts of 100, 200 or 800 shares.
Quite a little strength was shown by Missouri, Kansas dt .Texas, and reports regarding crop conditions in the Southwest were highly encouraging. Even Kansas, it was said, would produce a. large crop of wheat. Union leads decline.	*
In the-early partaftheeecondbourthc market reacted somewhat, but it showod.no real weakness, and trading was much ©deter . Room* traders affected to ’Me
Reaction progresses.
The reaction which began with the second hour continued throughout the. period, gathering, force as it went, and a number of stocks, including the-most influential leaders, made new low records for the downward movement
As the large interests showed no inclination to move the market up, the traders inferred that they would not oppose a decline and worked strenuously on the bear side, catching stop orders and forcing a renewal of liquidation by speculators whose margins had become impaired
The decline in Union Pacific was one of the most disturbing features, the traders attributing it to selling by the same interests which were supposed to have caused the break in St. Peul. The stock fell to a new low record, but Southern Pacific on the whole showed better resistance.	.	-
Support in Steel was not ns consistent as on Wednesday or Thursday and the stock was allowed to break to a new low record, notwithstanding that this issue will sell ex-dividend in about a week’s time.
London 'as again a buyer of stocks on a considerable scale, taking at least 40,000 shares on balance. The break here in the second hour was watched with interest, the foreigners taking advantage of it to buy stocks.
A severe break.
In the curly afternoon the market was practically demoralized with a heavy volume of forced liquidation which sent prices of nearly all leading stocks to new low record? for the year. It was contended that the market in the first hour or so had been held up to permit selling, and that the large interests were more concerned over the Administration’s’railroad action than they were willing to admit.	*
Consideration of intrinsic merits was not indulged in, and instead the Street gave its attention to the study of tlx? technical position and the possibility of what a continuance of forced liquidation might produce. Of course there are many holders of stocks who were rightly considered strong holders a comparatively short time ago, but cannot be considered so now.
Consolidated Gas became weak and the decline in this issue was regarded as further evidence strengthening the deductions already drawn from the weakness in St. Paul and Amalgamated Copper as to the market attitude of 26 Broadway.
On the whole, Baltimore & Ohio acted about as well ns anything on the list, holding well above the level of the break at the end of January, while ether stocks as a rule went to new low records.
A slight nilly.
h. tho late afternoon, after a further severe break the market rallied somewhat nn the covering of shorts. Other buying was lacking and speculative holders of stocks were by n J means reassured by the little improvement in prices.
On Reading’s break to lf»0, a largo number of stop orders were caught, and the whole market appeared to be filled with stop orders, for which the traders were gunning. Forced liquidation continued in quantity', and the Street was in a mood to believe almost any kind of nn unfavorable rumor.
Strictly investment issues behaved no better than those of the more speculative kind, nnd even guaranteed stocks were offered for sale, in many’ cases without attracting bids.
As nn indication of how* the holders of equipment issues were affected by the rumors of cancellation of orders, a decline in American Locomotive preferred to 104 Vs was enlightening. The stock has recently been selling in the neighborhood of 110. ...
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.