FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CLOSED ACTIVE AND WEAK. Heavy liquidation ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jan 15, 1910;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
CLOSED ACTIVE AND WEAK.
IIe:ny liquidation resulted in severe declines all through the list, the losses being especially heavy in the high priced stocks. Sides 1.267.656 shares.
The market suffered in the course of the session the most severe decline witnessed in a long time. Losses in toe active issues ran from about two to four or five points; slocks of standard quality suffering mure severely than those of less merit. Liquidation was in evidence all day, out was purt:cu!arly pronounced toward the end of the sc.-sion. when the selling was of large volume, and cverv par<. of the list yielded to influence.
Tor n long lime, support was rendered to certain stocks, like United States Steel and Reading, but the interests which rendered this support were in the late afternoon obliged to withdraw it, at least temporarily, and allow prices to fall to a lower level. Jn United States Steel the transactions were heavy and the price fell below S5 for the first, time since the privilege of ubscribing to new stuck a’. !U> was ofiercci to the employes of the corporation.
fn Union Pacific, also, the dealings were large, the s;ock ending the day with a loss of prints, but this issue in the last half hour or so appeared to be supported i*i the neighborhood of 194. The metal issues, the Hill si ricks. St. Paul and Consolidated Gas were among the weakest of the standard issues:, while certain pool stocks, nntanly Vabash preferred also fell heavily. Closing prices in the general lis: were practically at the lowest of the (■ay. and heavy selling continued to the end of the? session. Slop orders were caught on the decline, and the commission houses were obliged to send out calls to many of their customers for additional margins.
Strength in Rock Island.
The market made only a partial response at the opening to the strength displayed m London, the gams, except in Rock Island, being of only fractional proportions. In niaiiv instances they did no: exceed one-eighth of a quar-tei. Even on this moderate advance selling was met with and the remaining portion of the short interest showed no disposition to retreat from its ground.
Rock Island at the start showed a gain of 1 r,» points, which was increased to the extent of a considerable fraction on succeeding sales. The stories of a change of control were utterly discredited, nnd the statement was made on high authority that Mr. Reid has not parted with his interest in the company, and that he is unlikely to do so.
Selling ex-dividend. Reading opened at an advance of a small fraction, but there was selling of the stock by trad-t‘i.. uno had nought on Thursday on the theory that with th- dividend deducted from the price this issue’would look relatively cheap.
On rcitcra. on of merger rumor?', Amalgamated Copper opened a- a substant.al advance, but Smelter? failed to .‘•'.vmpathize with its strength.
A sharp reaction.
immediately after the opening the market reacted xluupiy and them rallied :n a halt-hearted sort of wav, but Without developing any real tendency. Even the n'loder-a.t rally which occurred seemed to be forced in a number of slocks, and certain of the influential leader,- refused entire.y to respond to the bullish operations.
There was rondderable strength in Virginia-Carolina Chemical on dividend rumors, and American Cotton Oil. although ’tiactive. made a fair response to tlie rise in the slock of that company, which is the only other important factor in cotton oil industry.
Reading was on the whole one of the strongest of the railroad issues, but as the stock, on ar.-oun: of the extent to which it is con-ent rated in a few hand.-, lends it elf t.> manipulation, experienced operators expressed tile view that it lmght be easy to exaggerate t.he importance of its rise.
Rock Island exc.eded everything else in strength, but tn hardly any other issue d d the Strict in general take less interest.
that there hag since been practically no demand. The experience of large concerns is usually better indication of the extent of the short interest than can be found in the Ioan crowd, and the observation'of such houses now is that the short interest has been practically eliminated.
It could harly be contended that the selling of St. Paul was for short account. The stock is not of a kind which J speculators would be likely to select for bearish operations, j and the liquidation of it has had a decidedly depressing I effect on sentiment. The meeting of directors will be held within a few days, and the host that i<s now expected is the declaration of the regular dividend. No rights need I be anticipated. '
According to well informed authority, Canada, as well: as Europe, has been a very large buyer of Rock Island in I the past two or three months. That the Canadians must, have received some assurances before their money went into the stock is regarded as quite likely.
A few stop orders were caught on the decline in prominent stocks and it was said that a large number existed in the general market.
Although some of the arbitrage houses were fairly active on the buying side of the market few of the orders originated abroad. Foreign buying did not exceed 10,000 shares. Other purchases made through arbitrage house’ were for New York speculators who were anxious to give' a favorable appearance to their transactions. •
Weakness in Hill stocks.
Liquidation, heavy and urgent, was the dominating influence in the stock market in the early afternoon, and, yielding to it, prices of the leading active issues declined sharply. Some of the traders said the market was like ■ the weather—sloppy—but such a characterization wasj hardly justified, and there was evidence of support in some stocks, notably in Reading and United States Steel.
The Hill issues, and particularly Great Northern Ore, acted very badly, liquidation in these securities being in-; sistent. The Street had the usual theories regarding liquidation of estates, but of course it is hardly to be supposed that selling of- that kind would have been conducted' in such a weak market.
American Smelting & Refining, which since the beginning of the decline has given a bad account of itself, acted ir. keeping with its course for some days	'
standing assurances from inside quarters are highly satisfactory.
Although Chesapeake & Ohio was a strong feature a few days ago, its action recently has not been good, and although at times it rallied sharply on the buying of a few hundred shares, the rallies were not well sustained.
In about as much degree as Brooklyn Union Gas were strong they became weak on the decline, war. poor.
Increase of liquidation.
Except for a slig-ht rally al about 2 o'clork the market generally tended downward in the late afternoon, under a continuance of heavy liquidation. The decline, however, was orderly and brokers said there was no difficulty- in ex-eruting selling orders. Whoever wanted to get out of storks was afforded a full opportunity to do so.
A new k»w record for the drrl.nc was made by Amalgamated Copper, and The Street ,-eenicd to be pretty full of the stock. I*. Liter large interests took advantage of of the reports of a mergt r to 1’quidate some time ag>, o: they have been pressing liquid:.: :< n Terentiy, possibly or. account of apprehension as io what is passing in Wash* ing'.on. At all events, the .-lock .- in good supply.
Some observer? .-aid the dec! nu in the general list was ihf* result of seliinp by the lam interests heated at 2/’ Broadway, and by another group of financin’ interests, hr.’ traders could in* found who argued r.outly that those in-tcre.'is, instead of Ini ng seller.-, were buyers of stork or. a scale down.
* Stocks which had borne up in the early part of the day d:d no:, art quite ns well towards the end of the session. this being true of the I!U‘wborough-Metropolitan issues and of Reading. Wabash preferred became decidedly weak*.	’
past, notwith-that earn in:-',
conspicuously
Consolidated Gas and a couple of weeks ago, The support for them
a,
it lmght be easy to exaggerate t/nt* impor
Period of irregularity.
In the first hour the market was irregular and verv professional. The room traders were uncertain what t:> expect, and had gone back to scalping profits, buying on th<‘ small reactions and closing out on the little rallies. I: was ti dull game at best, and it yielded little.	'	"
The attendance in the commission hotisps was verv small, on account of the storm, and for the same reason out-of-town orders were few, because the wire service was badly crippled. In some quarters it was contended that had communication with the West been in its normal condition. buying orders would have come in. but of course this wtts a debatable question.
Several transactions immediately following one another in Northwest brought down the price of’that stock by a good fraction, but a substantial part of the loss was made up on a single sale a few minutes later. Si. Paul was heavy and there appeared to be a continuance of liqtr-dation in the Hill stocks whenever the market was strong enough to take that kind of selling.
It appears to be indicative of the requirements of some market interests for money, that relatively poorer action is shown by the high priced stocks than by others. As a rule, when money is needed, the best way to obtain it is by selling the high-priced issues.
Support withheld.
Although the pressure of stock was not great, the market developed a sagging tendency early in the second hour, the large interests making no movement to render support. The tone appeared to be heavy, but interest outside of the room was very small.
United States Steel did not act well. and. indeed, the heaviness which it displayed was one of the worst factors in the whole market. The stock had been used as a leader in the movement against the shorts on Thursday, and the exertion proved a little too much. Its inherent strength seemed to have been all used up in that effort.
That the money situation is not the only or the real factor in the market would seem to be a fair deduction from the fact that call- money loaned nt about and that the banks gained considerably from the SubTreasury in the course of the week.
Some of the selling of Reading appeared to be good, and while of course appearances are not always reliable, it looked as if the large interests were not disposed to ■hold up the price while traders who had bought on Thursday were endeavoring <to realize on their ventures.
Rock Island retained its strength, but its influence on the general list was negligible.
St. Paul leads decline.
The market was very dull during the greater part of the second hour, and toward the end of the period became decidedly weak under the leadership of St. Paul in which there appeared to be continual liquidation.
Houses which had been heavy lenders of stocks say these were returned in quantity on Thursday night and
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.