FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CLOSED ACTIVE AND IRREGULAR. Whole list ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 27, 1910;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
Cl-OSIDI ACTIVE AND IRREGULAR.
Whole list declined sharply. Home issues violently. but an improving tendency was displayed in last hour. Sales 1.283.507 shares.
A heavy volume of liquidation, apparently coming from many sources and extending to parts of the market, but little affected in the earlier stages of the decline, caused a heavy, and in some stocks, a contplcly demoralized decline, notwithstanding the fact that the weather and crop nows was more Favorable nnd that the commodity markets, particularly corn and cotton, were weak on the improved crop prospects. Support was consistently rendered to a number of sto.-Ks in me course oi tne any, 'out i many non-dividend issues and spec laities were entirely I without support, excopt such as came from th<? ff.iort tn-1 terest. Such issues declined violently on liquidation, resulting from a closer scrutiny of collateral by banks and a demand for the substitution of other securities m loans. The statement of Steel earnings published after the close of business, with the announcement of declaration of the usual quarterly dividend of T'A'l on the common stock, surpassed expectation, the net for the three months end-1 ing .lune 30. amounting to $10.170.000. whereas traders! had not looked for more than $:t7,000.000. The volume of ! unfilled orders about coincided with expectation. The day’s I transactions in stocks amounted to 1.283,000 shares, and at the end of business declines were general, the losses running between 2 and -1 points in most of the active issues. A movement to cover shorts began in the afternoon, but the bears in the last few minutes again vigorously assailed the market without, however, causing any serious unsettlement. Part of the rally was lost but brokers reported that at the close it was easier to sell stocks than to buy them.
Active hii(I weak.	1
The opening was active and weak, but support was met with on the decline, and the market showed a tendency to steady itself after the lapse of a few minutes on heavy buying by shorts. It was rumored that some-tiling had occurred’ over night removing danger of certain apprehended liquidation.
Amalgamated Copper opened at 57%, immediately selling down to 57%, as compared with a closing price of 5S% on Monday. The stork afterward rallied, and, on the whole, was not greatly afTected by the marked weakness in the copper group in Ixmdon, and the tiecline in the price of the metal at that center. American Smelting Refining sympathised with Amalgamated Copper, and sold down to a new low record far the year.
The first of the really iniporta,nt stocks to open was Southern Pacific, which suffered an initial decline of %; and in Union Pacific there was an over night loss of %. St. Pau! met with good sunport under 119-
The initial quotation of United States Stee.l embraced 3,500 shares, at prices running from til>% down tn fill’A, as compared with a closing price of fit nn Monday. It looked, however, as if tin- shorts wore nervous over the possibility of a quarterly stateiiient better than the Street hail before expected.
Heavy iiquitlation.
After a slight rally the market again sold off with heavy liquidation in nil the leading stocks. A good deal of the selling appeared to come from lhe West and to represent efforts on the part of out of town institutions to get themselves in condition to t:.!:e care of the crop moving demands.
Reading was very active, and while it appeared to be well supported for ir time there was no sign of abatement in the volume of selling.
Atchison, which was weak at the start, received fair support, ami reports from tho West said the weather conditions were somuwhal more favorable for the corn crop.
Liquidation in Consolidated Gas, apparently by spec-ulnt.ors who bird bought some time ano on rumors of an increase of the dividend, gave that stock a very heavy tone.
New York Central was a weak feature, and it was ur-gued that the surplus after dividends would be reduced tn very small proportion on {recount cf the increases: of wages now taking effect.
! Support on decline.
The large interests showed more courage in rendering support, tnim on any other day recently; nnd as a result ot their uxvrtions the market towards the end of the first ! hour showed signs of returning firmness, after having at times betrayed weakness.
! Missouri Pacific, the king pin of the Gould system, was a very weak feature, starting nt a decline of 3% points which it soon increased to o points, notwithstanding nn improving tendency elsewhere in the list.
All the. equipment stocks declined heavily, American Car & Foundry selling down to ll-Ti, as compared to -It at Monday’s close, and American Locomotive, which only a little while ago held firmly above -10. breaking below till on fairly largo sales. Tho initial transaction in New York Air Brake was at 65, n decline of G points from the last previous sale. Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing sold down to 50, the selling of the stock being in some qunr-ters regarded as liquidation by one of the directors who is about to retire from official participation in the management.
. The lower rnnge of corn prices and the more favorable reports regarding crop conditions helped to impart strength to the Harriman stocks, Atchison and the grangers generally.
Bad response to margin calls.
Despite support by large interests, the market in the early part of the second hour was unable to hold up under a heavy volume of liquidation and weakness broke out in new directions. There seemed to be little bull sentiment around the Street, and commission houses found it n difficult matter to obtain additional funds from customers whose margins had become impaired.
- One of the disturbing features was a break of 5% points between sales in Southern Railway preferred. This stock has always been regarded as a favorite of certain powerful interests, who were bullish on its prospects a short time ago. It opened at 48%, and the next sale at 11:10 o'clock, was at 43. Louisville & Nashville was also weak, although not in such abject degree as Southern Railway preferred.
The 'buying of Pennsylvania looked good 'but the stock did not respond well. Possibly this issue was influenced by the weakness of-New York Central, the other great trunk line stock.
Iaterborough-MetropolUan preferred, of which there is
a large amount in the hands of the commission houses, was. weak on scattered liquidation.
Break in Rock Island.
Support was consistently rendered in the second hour, but a heavy volume of liquidation coming from a great many directions kept the market feverish and unsettled; and except for such buying as came from shorts and'from large interests 'by way of support, there was litole to encourage faith in the bull side.
One of the notable features was a break in Rock Island preferred, which, after selling at 69, declined to 67% on the next sale, then' to 65% on another transaction, and finally to 65. The only buying was what came from one of the -big wire houses, and that represented the covering of shorts 'by two or three customers. After a sale was made at 65, the best bid was 63%.
United States Rubber first preferred opened at par, against the last previous sale at 105.	.
Anaconda wont down with large declines between sales, dropping from 35 to 34%, then to 34 and finally to 33%, with a half point decline between transactions.
St. Louis Southwestern preferred, which was the severest sufferer on Monday’s break, sold down to 51 as compared with t-he closing price of 59 on that day.
London was a large buyer of stocks, taking between 35,009 and 40,000 shares on the decline in our market. The arfiitrage houses were uncertain how to classify the buying.
Renewed weakness In Steel.
’ The market was very weak in the early afternoon, for while littile rallies occurred on the covering of shorts, each was availed cf for a renewal of liquidation on a large scale, this kind of selling constantly appearing in new places.
The weather reports wore not all unfavorable by any means, and the declines in corn and cotton should have been a helpful factor; but they were not. The fact that the weakness in the commodity markets failed to help the stocks, increased tthe gloom in Wall Street.
Republic Iron & Steel preferred sold down to 83, as compared with 89 on Monday, and rumors were heard that the dividend on this stock, although cumulative, meght be reduced	.
Renewed weakness in U. S. Steel was a disturbing factor, the more so as the decline in the common was accompanied by a sharp break in the preferred.
The Rock Island stocks acted very badly, and the Harriman issues, well supported in tlie forenoon, finally broke through the support. American Telephone & Telegraph, long a notably strong feature, ultimately Fold off sharply; and the same was true of Pennsylvania.
There was no support to Missouri Pacific, which fell o 41 *.i, as compared wth a closing .price of 53% on Monday. It then rallied to 45. but was unalile to maintain even that very moderate gain.
A general rally.
In tlie lute afternoon the market, rallied better than on any day for a considerable time past, and displayed on the whole, a tone of considerable strength. There was quite a little covering by shorts, liut the bears had difficulty in obtaining stoeKs without bidding up prices rather quickly. A raid was made by the hears in the last few minutes, but it was not very successful, as the market appeared to have recovered sonic power of resistance.
The severe break in non-dividend stocks and narrow specialties was the result of greater discrimination by the banks against that kind of collateral in loans, and by this means the loan situation has been greatly improved.
One of the largest wire houses reported that its loans had been cut down 25'.' since the beginning of the present month, nearly nil of the liquidation having occurred in the last ten or twelve days.
Atchison rallied about as well as anything on tlie list, a fact which was taken us an indication that large interests do not feel alarmed over the corn condition in Kansas.
There was more inclination to expect a good Steel statement than there had been earlier in the day.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.