FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CLOSED STRONG AND ACTIVE. With practically ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 2, 1911;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	,
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
CLOSED STRONG AND ACTIVE.
With practically no interruption market maintained an advancing movement under the leadership of Steel.
Siiles 920,165 shares.
when the prices are down, not at the highest points.
There may have been some connection between the rise in Canadian Pacific and the fact that the London exchange was c’osed Because the most of the European exchanges were closed, the chief source of supply of the stock was practically cut off.
Strength in Lehigh Valley.
The market was quiet in the early afternoon, but its tono was apparently good and uround 1:30 p. m. the advance was resumed and lending issues were carried to new high prices.
The exceedingly favorable statement of the New York Central lines for September, furnished the new impulse to which the market responded, the system’s figures strengthening the impression already made by the Steel statement that business was by no means as depressed as the Street had imagined.
Lehigh Valley was a strong feature; but while Reading responded fairly well to the strength in other stocks, it was not a leader in anything like the usual sense. Reading is a very popular trading stock, and almost every trader taking a bullish attitude on the market buys some of it. The buying was of that miscellaneous kind, and was not impressive.
United Statea Steel recovered to within a fraction o! the piicc at which it closed on Thursday of last week, before the suit was announced, and the semi-official statement that p’ders during October averaged between 85,000 and 30,000 tons a day, created a favorable impression. Full recovery in Steel.
Groat strength was shown by the stock market during the late afternoon, although intense bearishness still prevailed in some quarters. There was, however, a change in the tone of bear comment, confidence having given place to dissatisfaction. The bears talked of the selfishness of the hulls and what they culled “the utter disregard of technic'll considerations.” They said the public was not buying; but the public may buy at prices higher up and as for the assertions that the market was hollow, it certainly could be said that it did not sound that way. The tone seemed to be excellent.
United States Steel recovered all of its break of last Friday, the recovery of 8% points on §508,000,000 stock wilder the room traders. That there hud been accumuln-
With practically no interruption, an upward movement occurred in the market, beginning with substantial over-night gains und ending with a display of aggressive strength in practically all the leading issues. U. S. Steel was the leader, this stock rising to 58%, or a traction above'ita closing price of Thursday week, previous to the filing of the anti-trust suit The Harriman issues and Lehigh Valley were other aggressively strong features, while Reading responded well to the movement elsewhere, but was not itself a leader. The bull impulse was supplied by the excellent statement of earnings of tho Steel Corporation and the brightened prospect for satisfactory reconstruction of the American Tobacco Co.; while the decidedly favorable report mude by the New York Central lines for the month of September, combined with the Steel figures, made it evident that general business is not a* depressed ns was popularly supposed. This moro favorable view of ^he situation was also borne out by the fact that the bookings of the Steel Corporation for October were between 35,000 and 30,000 tons daily, or tar above previously current estimates. A very considerable proportion of the buying of stocks may have represented the covering of shorts, but not all; it is doubtful if even the greater part of it was for that purpose. Some of the largest interests in the Street were entirely in sympathy with the upward movement nnd not only bought stocks themselves but advised their friends and clients that the time had como to buy conservatively. The greut body of small speculators wore hostile to the ndvanco nnd predicted an eaTly reaction. This, of course, would not be unnatural in view of the extent to which the rise has now gone, and it might* even be beneficial and healthy. Trans- .	.	.	_ ............ , -------- ------
actions totalled 926,000 share*,, and at the end of the scs- m four days being sufficiently unuraul to practically he-sion advances of from about two to four points were	the room traders. That there had boor, accumula-
nuite numerous. The bond market, also, was strong nnd	on a very largo scale was something that could not
1	vnvinuolv hn .Innliinrl
active.	’
Active nnd strong.
The opening was active und strong on the exceedingly favorable quarterly statement published by the Steel Corporation after Tuesday’s close, und on the confidence, based on the Attorney-General's favorable attitude, that the American Tobacco plan would be carried through in substantially its present form.
The opening on Steel was made up of 100 shares at 55%, and 10,000 from 56 to 56%, as eompared with a closing price of 54% on Tuesday. The statement of earnings gave satisfaction to every one except the bears, whose futile “arguments” thqt figures enn be made to toil anything received no more attention dhan they deserved.
Sales of Union Pacific were made simultaneously at 161% and 164% at the opening, the latter representing an over-night advance of %. Traders were still «verv bearish on the sleek, and according to close observers the short interest appeared to bo growing, instead of diminishing.
An over-night gain of % was shown in Smelters, which opened at G2%, and one large house advised its customers that the stock appeared to be oversold.
seriously be doubted.
American Can preferred was a very strong feature, ’ ’	‘	‘ ‘	* recovery
rising to 87%, an advance of 2% points, and a to near the high of the present year.
American Car & Foundry advanced easily, 50, and showing an advance of 3 points from close.
crossing Friday’s
■Selling; on advance.
Realizing sales were met with on the opening advance and caused a little recession from the best figures, but they were not pressed when the market gave signs of hesitation. Trading at the end of half an hour was quiet, but th* undertone appeared to be firm.
It was, of course, entirely natural that in view of the extent of the advance since Monday there should be realizing sales, and it was also entirely natural that the traders who were still bearish should endeavor to force a reaction on the appearance of real selling. Sales, however, were well taken.
Strength in the Tobacco issues naturally tended to confirm the belief that the plan would be approved by the court without important modification, and, of course, if this occurred, the general list would be helped to a decided extent. Approval of the Tobacco plan would dispose of apprehension regarding the workings of the antitrust law.	•
Virginia-Caro.ina Chemical opened at 48%, an overnight advance of 1% points, in response to the report of discovery of important potash deposits in the West which would make American manufacturers of fertilizers independent of German potash producers.	*
A buoyant rise.
After a little * hesitation around 10:30 o'clock, the market resumed its advance in an almost buoyant way under the leadership of U. S. Steel, Union Pacific and Lehigh Valley. Numbers of the traders rushed to cover, although many others retained their bearish position for the time being, in the hope that a better opportunity would be furnished them to buy in the stocks which they needed for the covering of contracts.
Steel crossed 57, as compared with 54% at Tuesday’s dose, and the preferred crossed 107, against a final price of 105,% on Tuesday. Genuine accumulation of both stocks by large interests appeared to be in progress.
Some of the largest banking interests in the Street unhesitatingly favored the bull side nnd advised their friends to take on the better class issues for a substantial advance.	“
Lehigh Vallley and Erie showed relatively better strength than Reading and the usual good buying of the last named stock was not in evidence. It was rumored that Erie first would enter the dividend list before the first of the new year.
American Cotton Oil was the only weak feature, that issue's weakness being, of course, on account of the uncertainty regarding the annual report, and the result of consideration of the dividend question nt the meeting of directors on Thursday of next week.
Buying by large interest#.
The market’s pace slackened in the early part of tho second hour, and conservative bulls were glad that it did. Had the movement continued at unabated speed, the short interest would have been driven in, and the technical position might have been weakened.
Some of the large interests while favorably disposed towards the .market, do not want to see much advance at present. They arc accumulating stocks, either for their own account or for the account of their friends and customers, and they want to do the. accumulation on reuson-ablo terms.
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph sold abovo 49, as compared with 47 at Tuesday’s close, and a low of 35 on ’the break a few weeks ago. The stock’s advance brought a lumor that the American Telephone & Telegraph Co., which owns a controlling interest, intended to take over the minority through an exchange of securities.
Canadian Pacific sold up to 238%, a gain of 2% points; and its subsidiary, Soo, advanced to 135%, as compared with 133 at Tuesday’s close.
A good response was made by Republic Iron & Steel preferred to the rise in the United States Steel issues, the quarterly statement of the Steel Corporation having raised the Street's estimate of the degree of prosperity prevailing in the trade.
Better copper trade outlook.	*
After a little pause for breath, the market resumed its advance toward r.oon in an aggressive way. Some observers on the floor said it was not so much the demand for stocks aa the limited supply for sale that caused the advance, but perhaps they underestimated the demand. That some of the largest interests in the Street arc genuinely bullish on tho market is a certainty.	-
In some usually well informed quarters it was said that the Amalgamated Copper interests were forcing the copper market, that they had put down prices a little in order to clean.uprthe situation and that a turn for the better would soon make itself felt.
Tho traders talked of the covering of one short line of 25.000 shares of Steel, and of various short lines of less extent, refusing to admit that there was anything in the nature of accumulation in the stock. Yet accumulation there was. The large interests do their accumulation
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.