FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CLOSED STRONG ON RALLY. To demoralized break ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Oct 28, 1911;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
CLOSED STRONG ON RALLY.
To demoralized break 111 Steel, the general mhrket opposed good resistance, ami prices developed improving tendency in afternoon.
Sales 1,364,880 shares.
The news of the filing’ of a suit for dissolution of the, United States Steel Corporation, being featured in the morning newspapers all over the United States and I Canada, and practically all over the world, brought a i tremendous volume of liquidation and bear selling orders1 into 'United States Steel,'as a result of which the stock; opened from 55 down to 53 as compared with 58% at tho previous close, then subsequently fell to 50, or 1% points under the lowest level touched in the July break. It was a sudden rush of liquidation and bear pressure, unthinking and impulsive. Great numbers of persons lost their heads, and selling orders poured in to bo executed at the market, apparently in utter disregard of the consequences. The very natural consequence was that the buying demand for Steel was overwhelmed, and the price went down precipitately. By nvdday it was all over, and a rally set in, which, in a more or less irregular way, continued to the end. The railroad stocks on the whole succeeded very well in resisting the break in Steel; and in conservative quarters it was contended that while the market was likely to be feverish for some 'time to -come, good stocks should be bought on weak Bpots. For weeks pest it was evident that something was hanging over the market. Now there is no longer any doubt as to what that was; and looking at the matter, after the excitement has s-ubsidetl, it does not seem that there was any ground for alarm. Even if the Steel Corporation be obliged to dissolve, the earning power <will remain, and stockholders will receive several certificates which in the aggregate will be as vuluable as the one which they now hold. The September statements of Union and Southern Pacific showed gains in net, although the gross earnings were somewhat smaller than those of the corresponding month last year. Transactions in stocks totaled 1,365,000 shares, and .the dealings in bonds also wore on a large scale.
Active and weak.
The opening was active and weak, although except in United States Steel there was nothing approaching a condition of semi-demoralization. Scale supporting orders wore in evidence in the leading railroad issue*, but thdre was u heavy volume of seilng both by frightened holders and by speculators, the rank and file of whom have been bearish for a considerable time past, and are now increasingly so because* the news favors that side.
Great Northern 01*6, having already had its declin**. was little affected by the news of the suit against the Steel Corporation, in which the Ore trustees are named defendants. The opening was at 41%, an over-nignv loss of only %.
Selling ex-dividend, Amalgamated Copper opened at 52. or the equivalent of F2%, an over-night decline at 1 % points. This was partly duo to the decline in metal prices abroad.
The opening »n United States Steel embraced 28,000 shares at prices from 55 down to 53%, or an over-night loss of from 3% to *5 points. This was a heavier loss than in London, where the decline amounted to only 3% points. The first sale or the preferred was at 104 and the second at 1()3%, the stock immediately jumping to 104%. Thursdays close was at 10S%.
Urgent liquidation concluded.
The market thowod a hardening tendency in the early aftetnuon, lhe moht urgent liquidation having been apparently concluded. The liquidation came in a torrent. It came fiom all parts of the countiy, and in all amounts. Tho news which caused it did not come piecemeal. It was received by everybody at once with satisfying completeness; and just as soon as people read their morning newspapers tho liquidating orders bcg.vi to’pour in by telephone, local and long distance, and by telegraph, while many holders of Steel camo hundreds of miles to give their orders in person. The more quickly it was done, tho sooner over.
From 50, at which there was a block of 9,000 shares, Steel rallied io 51%, thi3 being the largest rally’shown in the stock at any time from the opening to 1:30 p. m. Earlier rallies had run only to about %.
Traders appcaivd to be impressed with the fact that the rallies were on small transactions, and the declines on large ones. This, •hey thought, betokened further liquidation, and it was, of course, to be expected, that the market would nt least be feverish for some time to come.
There were revived rumors of an intention to prosecute American Smelting & Refining, and that stock was one of the weak features.
At one time Amalgamated Copper and United States Steel sold at exactly the same price, although the former pays only 2%, while the latter pays
A rallying tendency.
In the late afternoon the market was quiet, its dullness and .comparative steadiness making a remarkable contrast to the great activity and the precipitate decline of the morning. Traders were still exceedingly bearish, predicting all sorts of low prices for United States Steel, and also for standard railroad issues, such as Reading and Union Pacific. This probably indicated that they were itill short of stock?,
A rumor was current that Mr. Morgan and Judge Gary were about to leave for Washington, having arranged a conference with Attorney-General Wickersham.
The customers’ rooms of commission houses presented many strange faces, and from the expressions of opinion that were heard in those places it might reasonably be inferred that many holders of Steel had not only sold out their holdings, but had taken a position on the short side of the stock.	.
Union Pacific rallied well, helped, probably, by the increase of net shown in the September statement. Many traders had sold the stork.short in the forenoon, merely becauso they remembered that there was an anti-trust suit against the company, the hearing in which has been set by the Supremo Court for next January.
Values not destroyed.
From the low prices made at or immediately after the opening the market rallied briskly, and at the end of half an hour or so all the leading stocks showed considerable strength, with a large volume of activity.
Although room traders, and small speculator* generally. were very bearish on the announcement of the suit against the Steel Corporation, the:e was evidence that large interests were entirely reconciled to the new». and were accumulatirg stocks on the favorable opportunity for so doing. It was fc’t that the inaction of the market in the past few weeks wa« fully explained, and also that the news of the suit had been pretty thoroughly discounted.
The consideration to which the tracers neglected to pay sufficient attention, but which was urged in influential quarters, was that whatever may be the outcome of the suit just entered, the value of the properties cannot be taken away, and that no decision of a court can compel plants to compete with one another if their managers do not feel inclined to do so.
From 53%, the low point made at tho opening, Steel rallied to 54% nt the end of about 20 minutes, and the market was encouraged because the decline had apparently stopped at a level well above the low of the July break. On that occasion the price fell to 51%.
Pressure on Morgan stocks.
Although the market was under tiemenflous pressure in the first hour, support was, on the whole, very effective, and even in Steel the bears Fcemed to be unable to make much money, except Mich of them as hud put out their short lines prior to the announcement of the Government suit.
The Morgan stocks were the particular objects of attack, but they were very well taken cate of, and the effect of the first hour’s transactions was to transfer a large amount of Steel. Reading, Lehigh Valley and other Morgan issues from weak into strong hands, as well as to largely increase the outstanding short interest	*
The sumo sort of pressure that was used against the Morgan stocks was also exerted against Union Pacific, which, however, did not oppose as sturdy resistance to attack as was shown by the Morgan issues.
At about 10:30 o'clock Steel broke through the support rendered in the neighborhood of 54, and fell to 52%, which was still above the low point of July.
Traders argued that although the large interests might render support to Steel for a time, their buying could not hold the price uo if any large proportion of the 120,000 stockholders 'became alarmed.
Scale buying orders.
As the only buying in the market wa.s what came from the covering of some old shorts and the rendering of support on a scale down, it neither intimidated the bears nor encouraged holdeis of stocks to letain their holdings. In the early part of the second iliour prices gave way again, Steel falling below it* former low record of 51%.	t
Fortunes vary and times change, and it is a lather striking change to see American Beet Sugar spiling several points above United States Steel.. Predictions were made a few days ago that Beet Sugar would cross Steel, but they were considered absolutely ridiculous by nearly all the traders.
Bears said'that the only object of large interests in rendering support was to steady the market sufficiently to enable it to take more stock. Believing this way, they continued to sell with confidence.
Although the United States Steel news overshadowed everything cite, it was in many places regarded as an unfortunate coincidence thpt, at the same time, th4 market was obliged to take note of the announcement that the Attorney-General of New York state intended to opptfse the American Tobacco plan.
Liquidation and bear selling
At the end of the second hour the market agiin turned very weak, on a renewal of heavy pressure after a short period of comparative inactivity. Traders talked of an ‘‘object lesson” for tho Administration, but it really looked as if tho large interests were doing a good deal in the way of rendering support.
The large houses said there was a considerable volume of liquidation, but some of them, basing the’r opinion on their individual experience, said the .short selling exceeded the liquidating sales.
In some quarters it was contended tnat United states Steel would prove a good purchase at the present level, the argument used being that the case now entered could not be- decided by the Supreme Court within less than three years, and that by that time.the anti-trust law would be repealed or amended, eo that the Government would be obliged to withdraw its suit.
Republic Iron & Steel preferred was a notably weak feature, a fact which seomed to indicate that a return to old time methods of cut-throat competition would not be welcomed by the independent concerns.
Transactions for foreign account totaled about 75.090 shares, purchases exceeding sales by about 40,000 shares. The bulk of the buying was in United Slates Steel.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.