FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CLOSED STRONG AND ACTIVE. A buoyant rise ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 10, 1911;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
ing, Union Pacific and Rock Island, but subsequently became seller, particularly jn Steel.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
CLOSED STRONG AND ACTIVE.
A buoyant rise followed the aimouncc-meat of the decision of the Tobacco re-organization, Steel leading the advance.
Sales, 1,358,826 shares.
The decision of the Circuit Court upholding the American Tobacco reorganization plan, and refusing to grant the most important petitions of the Attorney-General, was hailed in Wall Street as the greatest constructive development of recent years, and was followed by a buoyant rise in the stock market equalled on few occasions in the past decade. Steel was tho loader of tho advance, nsine to 63%, ns compared with 58% at Wednesday’s close. The upward movement in that stock wns, when considered with Tcspect to the number of points gained and the large volume of the issue outstanding, one of the most imposing seen in any single day’s market in recent years. There was heavy covering of shorts, but at no time was there any real indication of a coming reaction; although, in view of the rapidity and extent of the rise, a moderate setback might reasonably be expected. The day’s transactions totaled 1,259,000 shares, and at the end gains of a point and upwards were general, while in many of the active issues the advnnccs ran to three, four or five points. The dealings in bonds were heavy, a largo proportion of them being supplied by the American Tobacco 6s. which rose to new high records—a sufficient commentary on the favor-orable character of the decinion obtained from the Circuit Court and which, in the opinion of those who should be well informed, will not be appealed. The favorable news contained in the report of the Cqpper Producers* Association and the announcement of the large orders for steel, disregarded :n Wednesday’s market, came into play, making one of th-? factors in the advance. The business situation was at no time as depressed as Wall Street supposed. and a change for the better hns undoubtedly come. Public interest in the market was not very large, although it unquestionably had been stimulated.
Active and strong.
The opening was active and very strong, the American Tobacco plah us approved by the court being much more favorable than the Street in general had anticipated. It shewed clearly how large corporations accused of violation of the anti-trust law could conform to the requirements of the statute, and created a new condition by which big business can be conducted without apprehension.	,
The opening in United States Steel embraced 20«000 shares, from 59% to 60%, an advance of from 1 to points on Wednesday’s clcse. The rise in this stock fairly well illustrated the view which large interests take of the significance of the decision in the American Tobacco reorganization case.
Reading vied with Steel in strength, opening at prices from 148% to 148%, and rising nt the end of u few minutes to 148%. nt which price a single block of 10,000 shares was done. Wednesday's closing was at 146%. The anti-trust suit against Reading has lost its terrors m view of the disposition made of the tobacco matter.
American Tobacco preferred and American Tobacco 6r; bonds made new high records, the former opening nt 99, an advance of 1% points, and the latter at 116%, an over-night gain of 1%%.
Coil on Oil dividend passed.
Tho market was quiet in the early afternoon, and the traders said it was tired; but as they had diagnosed it in the same way a week ago, it might not be safe to trust their professional judgment implicitly. There was a good deal of scattered selling, which on tho whole was well taken.
The passing of the American Cotton Oil dividend fulfilled reasonable expectation. It was the conservative course for a conservative body like the directors of that ; company, among whom some of the strongest financial interests in the Street arc represented.
:	It is well to remember that American Cotton Oil paid
a dividend* of 2%% last year, and in view of present favorable conditions in the trade is practically certain to make a considerable distribution in 1912. The stock’s dividend continuity may, therefore, bo considered unbroken.
By selling up to 68, United States Steel showed a gain of 13 points from the low in eleven business days. After such a rapid rise it seemed not unreasonable to look for a moderate reaction.	.
Traders said there was distribution of International Harvester, but from the action of tho stock it looked as if the operation was of the opposite kind.	. '
Realizing on advance.
» Again the market,paused for breath in the late afternoon, and egain the little1 period of rest and recuperation was followed by a new and successful bullish effort. The bears were bewildered; and if the bulls had any emotions, tney did not betray them. The fact is that among the small fry there were very few bulls; and the larger interests are not prone to show exuberance or depression of spirits.
Margin calls have been sent out in large numbers, and they are not upon the bulls. Failure to respond to them will mean buying of stocks; and, perhaps, those who respond will ultimately hnvo to buy at even higher prices.
Steel wus still, in all respects, the leader, and there is.hardly any doubt that there has been tremendous accumulation of that stock in the past couple of weeks. If the large interests intend to retain control of the steel industry, in the event that the Steel Corporation is dissolved, they can only do so by first possessing themselves of actual ownership of cn absolute majority of the United States Steel stock outstanding.
Union Pacific ranked next in strength to United States Steel, and looked all tho more attractive now that ; a 2%'/« dividend is included in its price.
Realizing on advances.
Quite a little selling was met with on the advance, and Some of it came from the large interests who had acquired stocks at considerably lower prices and were not only in position to realize substantial profits, but to encourage the growth of a short interest, with a view to preserving a strong technical position in the market.
The rise took the traders by surprise, that is, they did not expect to see such large advances on the opening quotations. They argued that stock had been opened too high; and under no circumstances could they be induced to buy nt the prevailing level.	’
American Cotton Oil was a notably strong feature, rising by about 10:20 o’clock to 45, as compared with 43 at Thursday's close.
A new high record was made by National Biscuit, which, on the announcement of the extra* dividend, sold up to 141%, as compared witl a previous high record of 141 last April.	a
American Can preferred continued to show decided strength, and the Tobacco readjustment was helpful to the Can stocks, since there has been some question as to whetner the American Can Co. could not be considered a combination in restraint of trade.
Heavy buying by traders.
The market’s pace became fast and furious around 10:30 o’clock and the result was to attract a very heavy volume of realizing and other belling, with the inevitable result of producing a . little reaction towards the end of the first hour. No matter how bullish an experienced trader might feel, he would not buy on u rise like that, knowing that the market would be there later m the day, next week, and forever.
On the rise at the end of the first half hour or so Steel common rose to 61%, an advance of 3% points on Wednesday's close, Smelters to 70%, a gain of 2%, Amalgamated to 57%, a gain of 2%, Lehigh Valley to 173, an advance of 2%, und Reading to 149%, as compared with 146% at the closing on Wednesday. Such advances as these within half an hour were entirely too rapid nnd such speed could not be maintained for any great length of time.
Content was a heavy I uyer of stocks, his purchases in the first half hour being estimated nt 50,000 shures, including 20,000 Steel nnd 20,000 Rending. The largest buying in general came from traders who had been sellers on Wednesday’s reaction.
There was unusual activity in Louisville & Nashville, the buying of the stock being attributed to the Morgan interests. A single block of 1,200 shares was done at 150—an important milestone on the advance.
Good copper news. '
After a little pnuse for breath around 11 o’clock the market resumed its advance, and the shorts who had retained their position on the opening rise, m uuXicipution of a reaction, were kept upon the anxious seat. In conservative quarters it was argued that the disposition made of the Tobacco matter was the most important development of a constructive nature which had occurred in years.
While Harvester wns not particularly conspicuous by tho extent of its advance it held its gain notably well, and accumulation of thatetopk appeared to be in progress, partly on account, no doubt, of tlie insight which the Harvester Co. hns now obtained into the workings of the antitrust law.
ThO'favorable statement of the Copper Producers’ Association, although disregarded on Wednesday, finally came into play, and the copper stocks were also helped by the advance in the price of the metal. Amalgamated and Smelters were very strong features.
Tho short interest in Steel was said to be very large, and it was a significant fact that the heaviest transactions in the stock were on the advances. When the shorts wanted Steel they hag to bid for it; when they ceased bidding business practically stopped.
Activity in Tobacco Os.
After remaining comparatively quiet but firm during the greater port of the second hour, the market again became aggressively strong at the end of the period, when Steel rose to 62, a new high record for the present movement.
Some of the large houses reported an increasing interest on the part of the public, but the general view of the rise was that it resulted principally from the covering of short3.
There was very great activity in the American Tobacco 6s, some of the blocks at 117 being unusually large. There was one transaction in 169 bonds at that figure. A good deal of the activity in tho Tobacco issues and in the securities of the new companies on the curb was, undoubtedly, due to arbitraging between the old and the now.
One of the large houses advised its customers to buy stock on every reaction and not to wait for large reactions, either, because the precedent set in tho Tobacco case would lender the anti-trust law innocuous.
Only a little time ago the Streot was filled with rumors of a pending suit against the American Telephone & Telegraph Co. The stock’s present strength shows that apprehensions of that kind arc not entertained now as they were then.
Transactions for foroign account totaled about 35,006 shares. London bought early, principally in Steel, Read-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.