RALLY FOLLOWS DECLINE: After a severe break on unfavorable rumors ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 29, 1914;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	_
RALLY FOLLOWS DECLINE
Panicky conditions prevailed in Europe Tuesday* and it was nege«a«»^y to close the Paris Bourse in advance of the usual time- There was heavy liquidation in London for Continental account, and the affect of that was aggravated by the difficulty in arranging the fortnightly settlement. which resulted in a small failure, with the probability of other failures before the account was arranged. There was a considerable amount of foreign liquidation in thte market, although the selling was restricted by the demoralization in the exchange market; and it was thought that unless a definite turn for the better occurred in the international situation in Europe, New York would be obliged to take further heavy sales for foreign account in the next few days. Reports indicating the possibility of a general European war followed one another in rapid succession. increasing the nervousness of holders of securities, and the heavy decline in prices caused liquidation by holders of stocks who had previously felt entirely secure in their bullish position. Canadian Pacific was a particularly weak feature, breaking violently at the beginning of the last hour when the Montreal Stock Exchange suspended operations, with the result that liquidation was concentrated in New York, the only market for the stock v hich then remained open. For a period around 2 o’clock ' the conditions in the market approached demoralization. , There was a brisk rally later, but it was not well maintained, and the closing prices in nearly all stocks were ' but little removed from the low of the day.	J
In the highest banking circles the belief prevailed that there would be no general European war. Tn the event of such a contingency, the two Germanic nations j would be obliged to fight practically all the rest of Europe. J Germany would be obliged to engage Russia on the east, j France on the west, and the British fleet on the north, ; while Austria would be confronted by a coalition of Balkan stater, and an invasion by Russians on its eastern frontier. Italy, it was believed, would refuse to be drawn into the conflict, in spite of treaty obligations, as the Italian people arc believed to give their sympathies to £ervia in the present crisis. The weekly weather report was unfavorable, the need of rain being severely felt in • portions of the corn belt. • Heavy engagements of gold. were made for export, and it was expected that there would be further large takings of the metal before the end of the week.
Transactions totaled 1,027,000 shares, the largest to- ' tai since December 11, 1912, and at the end declines were ’ genera], the net losses amounting to 3 or 4 points in many i cases, and to 15 points in Canadian Pacific.	•
A <leiuor;Uiz<xl break	I
For a period around 2 o'clock, demoralization prevailed ■ m the stock market, but the large interests soon regained * control of the situation, and stocks afterwards rallied briskly from the low. The demoralized condition resulted from the unconfirmed report that Russia had declared war on Austria, the story practically carrying its own refutation
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.