THE STOCK MARKET: A HEAVY DECLINE Prices broke to new low levels, ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 31, 1914;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
An orderly decline
^factors which produced liquidation
Calling: for margins
A 'vigorous bear raid brought some liquidation from the hands of weak holders, concentrating in a few minutes an amount of that kind of selling which otherwise might have dribbled oat in the next day or two. The decline, by shaking out the weak holdings, left the market in better technical position, and at 12 o’clock tnere were moderate rallies from the low.
Lehigh Valley, Heading and Amalgamated Copper yielded rather easily to attack. Lehigh sold down to 123, dropping to that figure from 125 on a single sale, and ’then recovering to about 125 on the next transaction. At 128 it showed a decline of 7¥r points from Wednesday's dlose. Heading dropped to 1471*:, but recovered to a level jibove T49 at the end of a few minutes, and Amalgamated 12opper after falling to 5214 rallied well.	‘
jVklieavy slump
\ln the early afternoon the market slumped heavily, but ft could at least-be said that there was a market at all tinae*^.	that 'was something that could not be
claimed for'sjuy other stock exchange in the world. All sellers found bthvers, but the buyers made the prices. The advance in the\u<mey market, had some effect, more by w..y of a warning^ejEarding'the ^future than of an actual present factor. People^R?ho thought rates might go much higher were unwilling to'vfetup ftmds in stocks.
Reading was a particule^Jy weak feature, but to understand its action it is necesai&^tO’T’emember that in the early stages of the decline it atbRjjcted .attention by Us firmness. Probably it was held upvtS^pn, and was bought on its apparent strength by people who^^terwards became frightened and sold hurriedly when the Vapjport withdrawn. At 143 the stock showed a decline OF’-lIAi joints from Wednesday’s closing level.
Over the arbitrage rail very little was done for London account, but the Continent was a steady seCer on direct order. The amount of the Continental sales could not be estimated with accuracy, but perhaps 40,000 shares would be a fairly close approximation.
A disturbing report
A little rally in the late afternoon was succeeded by a renewed decline which carried stocks to the lowest figures so far reached, with heavy selling on the downward movement. This latest break followed a report from Berlin that Germany had demanded an explanation of Russia of the mobilization of troops on the frontier, setting 24 hours as the time limit for a reply. .
The new low prices caused liquidation by people who a week ago were regarded as strong holders of stocks, and who then thought that their margins of 20 points would more than suffice to carry them through anything that eould occur in the market.
General Motors was a very weak feature, selling deun tc 5fi compared with 7R at the close on Wednesday. The preferred dropped to 70. a decline of 18 points.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.