THE STOCK MARKET: A SHARP REACTION After a strong opening, heavy Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 16, 1914;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
A SHARP REACTION
A sharp reaction occurred in the market yesterday, rnd the most solid and conservative interests in the Street said they were glad of it. They were of the opinion that the decline would do the market good, by affording opportunities for trading, and offering inducement^ to investors to purchase stocks without being obliged to climb for tiiem. The hope was even expressed that the reac-t^n would go further, as within reasonable bounds an additional decline might be desirable. The market had been going at such a pace as to suggest a desire to put it up as much as possible m as short a time as possible, the only object of wtuch could he to make an opportunity, immediately, for the marketing of stocks bought outside of the exchange at the low prices of last summer, or on the	prior to the suspension cf business at the
end of July. Tho fact is, however, that the large interests are determined that the market shall be a natural one, and that future developments thall not, as bull arguments, have the same weight as established facts. The admission to the open trading of a large number of issues, including such prominent stocks as United States Steel, Union Pacific. Southern Pacific, Baltimore & Ohio, Great Northern and Canadian Pacific, which had previously been dealt in only through the'feeaTlng house, produced an outburst of enthusiasm at the start,.the Street forgetting that the increased supply of stocks produced thereby would place an additional burden on the buying demand. Then came the selling and the reaction.
Efforts were made to explain the decline on the gtound that the forecasts of the rate decision might prove to be too optimistic; but the cause of the reaction was in the market itself, and not in the news. .As a matter nt fact 'the day’s news was favorable, and there was continued expectation in conservative quarters; of a sutH-factory decision in the rate case, at an early dartc. The copper metal market was strpngci ; and although money rates here were practically unchanged, easier conditions prevailed at some of the other large centers. Sterling exchange was higher, apparently as a result of liquidation of securities for Ixmtfon account, hut marks were inclined to weakness.
Transactions totaled 268.674 shares, compared with 231,111 on Monday, and at lhe end there were declines in nearly all issue-, hv comparison with Monday's clo^.ng figures, the lo^se* in many cases amounting tu 2 point-* or more.
.A strong; opening;
The opening was active and very strong, v.it'i interest centering chiefly in the stocks just admitted to open dealings for the first time, and in which large advances were shown over the closing figures of July 30. The chief of these wa* United States Steel, in which the opening was from to 54%, compared with 51% at the close on the last day of business lust summer. The preferred opened at 105%, compared with 106at the close at the end of July. Sentiment on Steel was favorable, as it was expected that if the railroads received an increase of rates they would become heavy buyer? of rails and other supplies.
There was a great deal " ’	*	'
l>altimore & Ohio, as there stock through the Clearing more than four months of The start was highly favorable, the stock opening at 73% rnd immediately advancing to 74, compared with 67 at the end of July.
Great Northern opened at 119’4. a gain of 5’4 points ci) the July 30 close, while Canadian Pacific opened 3% points vp at 161. and Union Pacific gained 8% on the July 30 close, by opening at 121%.
A selling; movement
Shortly after the opening the market sold off rathe’*
of interest in the opening on hud been no dealings in the House during the period of suspension of open dealing's.
sharply, and at the end of the first half hour was active and reactionary. Realizing sales were induced by the rapid advance of the past couple of days, and there was a suspicion in many places that liquidation was being conducted for foreign account.
The admission to the active dealings of leading issues heretofore dealt in only through the Clearing House, by adding to the supply of stocks out of which the buying demand could be satisfied, probably had a good deal to do in changing, temporarily, the market's tendency. Another- factor tending to produce a reaction was that the forecasts of the railroad rate decision were less favorable than those circulated at the end of last week and on Monday.
The opening on Southe'rn Pacific was from 89 to 89%, compared with 84% at the end of July.* The strength in the stock was regarded with considerable satisfaction, a-* since the early summer there has been heavy liquidation of that issue for German account.
Origin of sellinjr
The selling which appeared immediately after lhe opening soon dried up, and on a fairly sharp reaction the market became comparatively dull for a time, then developed a gradually improving tendency, and at the end of the first hour was fairly active at a moderate recovery from the decline.
The room credited a well known operator just returned from a short vacation in the South with having been a heavy seller of stocks. He was away on the day-* on which the pronounced rise occurred, but he might have accumulated a line of stock before leaving New York.
After selling at 57%. compared uith 56“* at Monday’s close, Amalgamated fell back to 55, but had iccov-ered part of its loss by 11 o'clock. The other copper?, which had not risen as ‘-harply us Amalgamated on Monday, held relatively firm when it reacted.
Mexican Petroleum, after opening at 56. compared with 53 at the cioso on duly 30, dropped back to 52, affected by the uncertain political outlook m Mexico.
Borroning of Stool
There was a further >harp reaction in the >cconj hour, and the market was fairly active during that period. Previously stocks had ?*tood up against everything except selling and there was some question «« to ho* thej would take that. When the test came, the rnuiket bore it pretty wc’l. Prices declined, but there was a good demand on the reaction, and at no time was the market out of hand.
There was a good demand for Steel in the loan croud at 3'' to carry. Many brokers contended that the short interest hud been largely responsible for the <rone opening in the stock, and that if the price vas put higher, foreign selling would be invited.
There seemed to be quite a little foreign selhgn in the general list, but the amount of profit taking sales on the part of people who had bought during the period ot suspension of business on the Exchange wa« relatively mufh greater
The equipment issue? acted well considering the dullness in that industry, and the fait that the -hort interest in them was relatively small.
Relapse into dullness
In the early afternoon the market was quiet but fairly steady at about the low level. * Tho«e uho were bullish ‘ said the relapse into dulness meant that the selling move; ment had run itc course, while those who were not bulb ! ish commented upon the apparent lack of rallying power. There was thus a healthy division of opinion, giving promise of a good trading market.
Reading gave signs of returning firmness, and I»e-high Valley acted .«o well a« to suggest that large interest.* were of the belief that the decision in the eastern Tieight
rate case would be of substantial benefit to the trunk lines.	*	|
Central Leather held well, and rumors were current that at the dividend meeting to be held next week, there would be an increase of the rate of disbursement to stockholders.	’	,
In view of the fact that there was foreign liquidation in the general market, Canadian Pacific acted surprisingly well, and in some places it was said that although Canada had been selling that stock, it has been well bought for British account.	'	I
Renewal of decline
In the late afternoon the market was dull without any definite tendency in prices, but it was generally conceded that stocks acquitted themselves well. It is easy to put prices up when there is no selling—the condition which prevailed on Monday, when everyone talked of the lack of a supply of stocks—but the test comes when selling appears in quantity; and the fact that the sales in the course of the day did not intimidate the buying, did more to indicate confidence than the previous advance.
Rumors were current to the effect that the rate decision would be disappointing. It was to be expected that such stories would be circulated, for the Street having made up its mind that a 5°<? increase would be granted, the only new thing that any one could say on the point would be that the Street expected too much.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.