THE STOCK MARKET: A VIGOROUS RISE
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jun 4, 1915;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 4
A VIGOROUS RISE
. , ' Wall Street’s IzopeB of a, settlement of the German difficulty .were reflected by a 'vigorous buying movement
'	Sales 731,322 Shares
’ Although there was ,»o definite news of a change in the relations’ Between this country and Germany, -rumor persistently asserted that the outlook for a settlement had been improved, as a result of Ambassador von BernstorfTs conference with President Wilson. The market completely threw off its hesitation* and advanced vigorously in response to a buying demand which seemed to represent absorption by large interests rather than the covering of short contracts. The advancing movement started at the opening, an<£ continued practically without interruption to the end of the day. United States Steel was the leader, and according to the observations of experienced brokers on the floor, the buying of the stock was of the best quality. There were intimations even before noon that the decision in the anti-trust suit had been arrived at by the District Court, and that it was a complete victory for the company. The United States Steel management, and the lawyers who represented the corporation in the proceedings, always expressed faith in the strength of their case, as the company has always endeavored to promote instead of restraining trade. A week ago, leading steel men like Judge Gary and ‘Willis L. King of the Jones &. Loughlin Co., who attended the meeting of the United States Steel Institute in this city, expressed themselves optimistically regarding the future of the trade, Mr. King asserting that a change had already occurred, and that the return of prosperity was a matter of the immediate rather than of the distant future. The monthly tonnage figures, to be published on Thursday of next week, will probably show a large increase of unfilled orders; and the net earnings of the corporation for the current quarter may exceed $25,000,000, an amount which would be equal to 1% on the common stock, after payment of the dividend on the preferred.	.
After the close of the market the news was received that the United States Steel Corporation had won its suit, the decision of the District Court being in its favor on every important point. From the stock market point of view, this was regarded as the most bullish development which has occurred for a long time past; and favorable inferences were drawn from regarding the future course of action of the courts in dealing with suits under the anti-trust law. That an appeal would be taken by the Government was considered probable; but at the same time it was felt that the moral effect of a complete vindication by the lower court of the company’s position would be very great. The money market was easier, and there was a good demand for commercial paper. Crop advices continued favorable, and it was expected that the decision in the Steel suit would produce a stimulating effect on business.
Transactions totaled 707,000 shares, and at the end advances were general, gains amounting to 2 points or more in the most important issues.
Over-Nijrht Gaius
There was a moderate volume of activity at the opening, and prices were higher all around as a result of buying which seemed to be of the nature of accumulation rather than covering of shorts. The Street believed that the interview between the President and the German Ambassador had resulted in some progress towards a settlement of the international difficulty, the latter being said to have made suggestions which, if accepted by Berlin, would remove much of this country’s ground of complaint.
Union Pacific opened X xip at 125“^. and Southern Pacific advanced on the first sale, which was at SS. In Reading there was an initial gain of •*£. The evidence of strength in the railroad stocks was an encouraging factor.	-
General Electric wa« a strong feature, although the Street had no confirmation of the vague rumor* that the company has received imoortant war orders. The first sale was 1 % un at 162. United States Steel opened with sales at 55 and 35 compared with 53 at Wednesday’s close. Utah Cooper and Smelters made gains of . and Amalgamated Copper opened at an advance of
Absorption of Steel
A large volume of activity developed after the opening. and at the end of the first half hour the market was in all respects the best which Wall Street has had in many nays. It was strong, broad and active, and its action tended to sustain the theory that some change for the better had either occurred, or was» expected, in his country’s relations with Germany.
The fact was favorably commented upon that a house had sold 10,000 shares of Steel in Wednesday’s market, all within the range of Vi. The absorptive capacity ■thereby disclosed was impressive, and the present strength is a natural result.
By advancing to 70’/*. American Smelting & Refining gained 2% on Wednesday’s close. The stock has shown
ability to advance on comparatively small transactions, being "helped by the strength of the copper market, and also the advance in lead, from which it benefits indirectly through its control of Federal Mining & Smelting.
Butte de Superior continued its upward movement, in response to the great strength of the spelter market. It gained 2% by selling up to 76%.	•	.
The German IMifficuIty	.
□The vigorous advance in the market was halted,a little before the end of the first hour by the news of the recapture by the Austro-German army of the fortress of Prze-mysl from which it was inferred that the European conflict would be long drawn out, notwithstanding Italy’s entrance into it and the* prospect of participation by the Balkan States.	—
In connection with the strength of United States Steel it was predicted that the plants of the company would be operating to full capacity within ninety days and that prices in the leading lines of material would be higher then than they are now.	*
The interview with Vice-President Bope of the Carnegie company, published bj- Dow, Jones & Co., received a large measure of attention. Colonel Bope, who is one of the country’s best authorities on the steel trade, expects very big orders from the railroads in the near future.
Federal Mining & Smelting continued its advancing movement, the preferred gaining 4i~ points to 41, and the common 2 points to 17. The rise was due to the big demand for lead at advanced prices.
Strenjrtli In Can
At the end cf the second hour the market was quiet, but stocks maintained a substantial advance and sentiment in the Street was unmistakably optimistic. In German circles, in which on Tuesday it was stated that Ambassador Von Bernstorff would submit important proposals to President Wilson, it was contended that the event justified the forecast, and that a settlement of the international difficulty between this country and Germany had been brought much nearer by Wednesday’s conference.
In connection with the advance in United States Steel it was predicted that a decision in the anti-trust suit would be rendered in the near future and that in the main it would be favorable to the company.
It was figured that on the order for 30,000 cars received by Presse;! Steel Car from the Russian government the profit would be approximately $6,000,000, and that it would suffice to restore the common stock to a dividend basis. If from other business the companv could earn its preferred dividend, the Russian order would mean earnings of more than 20G- on the common during the period of about two years in which the cars were being turned out.
Sentiment on Railroads
Great strength nvas shown bv the market in the early afternoon, and the activity was on a large scale. The most satisfactory feature was the prominence in the trading of stocks of the standard class; while the war order issues dropped into a comparatively inconspicuous place.
United States Steel was the leader, and it exerted a powerful influence. It advanced to	compared with
53 at the close on Wednesday. It was expected that the tonnage statement, to be published on Thursday of next week, would make a good snowing, and that for the current quarter the net earnings would be $25,000,000, or approximately l*~r for the common stock. after payment of the quarter’s dividend on the preferred.
Certain prominent German bankers were said to have advised their friends that the reply to President Wilson’s note was only transmitted for the purpose of checking the impatience which had begun to manifest itself on this side, and that more satisfactory proposals would be submitted later.
American Can was a strong feature and its strength v*as said to be due in some measure to the prospect of large orders from Great Britain in the near future, and of a certain amount of French business. As to the nature of those orders nothing was said in the current reports.
Itise in Fedend Smelting
There was no sign of halt or hesitation in the npwdrci movement in the last hour, and although commission houses advised their customers to refrain from buying until assured of a definite change in this country’s relations with Germany, absorption by large interests was in evidence, whatever may have been the basis of it.
The increasing activity in the steel trade was counted upon as an important factor tending to increase the earnings of the railroads; and that, combined with the nrignt crop prospects, was expected to bring railroad stocks into greater favor than for many months past.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.