THE STOCK MARKET: A VIGOROUS RALLY Prices advanced sharply on
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 12, 1915;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
A VIGOROUS RALLY
' “Prices advanced sharply on T^resident AVIlson’s intimation that there would be no war with Germany.
Sales 588,536 shares
Th® feature of the market which attracted most at- i tention from experienced traders was the tendency to be- 1 come active on advances and to relapse into comparative ‘ dullness on declines. This was in marked contrast to the • action on every other day since last Friday, for advances /previously had met stock, and sales Mere pressed on declines until the whole structure of prices gave way under their weight. The change of form was due^ to the fact tnat in the past few days a large short interest was created and a great amount of stocks transferred from weak to strong hands; while an impulse for advance was furnished by the President’s speech at Philadelphia, from which it was inferred that there would be no war with GArmany unless the German Government was determined to force this country into a conflict. A great many traders had gone home short Monday afternoon in the belief that war was a certainty. After reading Mr. Wilson’s speech they changed their views, and rushed to cover at the opening, with the result that overnight gains of two and three points were made in many of the active issues. By the end of the first hour the most urgent demand of the snorts bad been satisfied, and the market then relapsed into comparative dullness; but it again became very strong and active in the late trading, so that the closing prices were little under the best of the day. The largest recoveries were in industrials which had suffered most severely in the recent declines; and houses which had previously opposed speculation by their customers in those issues, thought that on account of the elimination of weak holdings, those stocks were no longer unattractive from the viewpoint of the courageous trader. While conceding that it is yet too early to forecast the outcome of the present difficulty with Germany, conservative WallJStrect interests were almost a unit in saying	‘
be le£t ip the hands of the President.
The over-subscription of the $65,000,000 Pennsylvania Railroad bonds offered by a prominent banking house just nrior to the destruction of the Lusitania was considered a xSost encouraging sign of investment of conditions, for many bond dealers had come to the conclusion that the sale could hardly be a complete success under the circumstances. The fact that investment sentiment was not disturbed probably helped to restore speculative sentiment, and contributed to the renewed strength of the market in tlie late trading. An increase of railroad traffic was indicated bv the monthly returns showing a reduction on May 1 in the number of idle freight cars from 327.0SI to 289.627 compared with April 1. The preliminary estimate of the foreign commerce of the United States for the first week of May showed a $20,550,000 excess of exports c”~” imports: and while the figures were vnder those of the previous week, they were well above the total of two weeks ago. -For the peiiod from December I to May 8 the balance of trade in favor of the United States amounted to the extraordinary total of $725,000,000; anti the bright agricultural prospects in the West afford promise of a continuance of the favorable trade tendencies fcr a long time to come.	.
Transactions totaled 5SS.500 shares, and substantia, advances were made all through the list.
I-;tr*re Ovcr-Nijyht Gains
President W’ilson** pacific speech elicited an enthusiastic response from the market, and at the opening large gains were made all through the li*t. In many ca^ei the enthusiasm cat vied the initial prices too tai. and succeeding sales were at somewhat lower prices, but the e\ idence of strength wa- unmistakable, ami the Street seemed to he whollv iea«sured.	1	-
To,make the opening on Steel 5.000 .-hares were done r.t prices from '3% to 34%. but the latter figure was. not
maintained, and a minute or two later the price dropped back to about 53%. This, however, was a net advance of 3% points on Monday’s close. The first sale of Bethlehem Steel was at 135, the second at <136 and the third at 137, the last named a gain of 4% points. American Smelting & Refining opened 3 points up at 67, and the opening on Westinghouse was made by 2,000 shares from 88 to 89%, compared with 83% at the close on Monday.
Union Pacific started at 125%, up 2. Southern Pacific gained 2% on the first sale, which was at 88%; and Reading, after opening at 144%, sold at 146 on the second transaction, compared with 141% at Monday’s close. Atchison, at the end of a couple of minutes, sold at 100 /*s, a gain of 2%.	*
Realizing oil Advance	1
Activity during the first half hour was on a very large scale, and although there was evidence of celling of stocks bought for the purpose of protecting the market on recent demoralized breaks, the sales were absorbed without difficulty, causing only comparatively small recessions from the best figures.	.
The copper issues, which had been among the heaviest, sufferers on the decline, "came back’’ with spirit. After} opening 1% up at 66, Amalgamated advanced to 67%;; while Utah, from its opening level of 63. rose to 61, where, it showed a gain of 2%. Inspiration gained 2 points by i selling up to 29%.	j
There was great activity in Union Pacific, the stock j resuming its place as a market leader. In Steel the vol-1 ume of transactions was enormous, and although the traders said the selling was of good qualitv. the stock; maintained a substantial advance on Monday s closing
There were wide fluctuations in U. S. Rubber, which, J after opening at 61%. advanced to 62%. compared with, 38% at Monday’s close. On the advance, however, a Mip-j ply was met with, and part of the recovery was lost. | Relapse Into Tininess	!
As soon as the stampede of shorts, which was a factor in producing the large opening gains, "as over, the market quieted down, but at the end of the first hour, although trading was comparatively inactive, the tone seemed ■	*. In conservative quarters it was argued
that large interests were to a great extent out of stocks when the break occurred, and that, tierefore, the wuri-’ ties which they have bought will, for the most part, be held for consideraolv higher prices.	•
It wa* argued in some places that as even President Wilson doe- not yet know what policy will be pursued m regard to t>c I.usitania matter, the market was likelv_ to wait until after publication of the note, before proceeding much further in an upward direction.	1
The Interbcrough-Mctrcpohtan issues were strong ai-i though not verv active. Sentiment on them wa- helped by the statement of a director that success of the plan ’ is assured; but it is a characteristic of those stock* that tnev he comparatively dormant while the general list is, active, and move when little is being done elsewhere.
over itiso Checked Temporarily	!
‘	A definite check was given to.the upward movement'
in the second hour b> President Wilson’s statement that.
that the matter could safely ^_bf,vcry f^ut oC Ftock?
Lc had not yet formulated a policy in regard to the Lusi- J tania matter, and could not make up his mind on the sub-,
’Ulna IIU.LLLI,	,
ject until he received further information than he possesses at the present time. Possibly the advance would. have been checked in any event, as the pace at the open-. u.g had been entirely too rapid, ami a continuance of it. would have resulted in renewed weakness of the technical j position.	. I
While a large amount of short covering was dene in the course of the foienoon. conservative houses s»aid there was a considerable bear account still outstanding, so that the market v.as by no means in a vulnerable position, and could prooaolv give a good account of itself under attack. The fact* Mas favoraolv commented upon that on the recent break the average price® did not go a?, far down as the Ion of Feorunry. while the low of that decline was well above the ln.v of the break on December 21. When successive «h'.ine« leave the market at higher levels, the tendency i- { lain. This is ball period.	i
A Favomble Iudiration
Trading was quiet in the early afternoon, but prices held firmlv. and the amount of stock offered for sale was small. The bulls said tho market was waiting for the result of the eaoinet meeting, but that conditions were such tnat anjtmng tending to stimulate a uitying demand would be likelx to produce a quick advance.	.	>
Although the Maxwell dividend declaration of 1 for the quarter, and %' < additional on account o' oack; dividends, was up to the nio-'t optimistic expectations, the common stock broke on the row® from 46** to 42, ^the second preferred dropped from K,a« to 3b; and the first, after a quick advance t<» 86 . toon lost the greater oart o. it*- gain. The traders sold the stork.- in anticipation of realizing j,ule> on the good new.-.
Th«* announcement that the S65.OOO.O0d Pennsylvania , bonus had been ovrrsuosccibed was regarded with satis, faction in con®ervatixe quarters, as it indicated the exist-, enco of a bettei demand than might have been expected in • view of the international difficulties now confronting this( country.	•
Kemnval of Adtancr	i
In the late afternoon the market again became verv strong and active, for although no announcement wa.j. made after tho Cabinet meeting, the Street wa.- pleased vith the evidence that the Administration is moving witn deliberation in the matter of preparing a protest to the ( German government against the loss of American axes on the kusnania and the other outrages on the high
The fact was favorably commented upon that advance® do not now bring out a flood or selling orders as was the case prior to Monday’s break. The market sttua- , tion seems to have been changed completely, a large short interest having been created where formerly there was a weak bull account.	1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.