THE STOCK MARKET: QUIET BUT FIRM After early dullness, market ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Feb 3, 1915;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
-	QUIET BUT FIRM
Alfter early dullneM, market advanced siiarply, but reacted a little at the end.
Salon 900,861 riiareH
"While there wua considerable ii rwuularity In the course of prices, a good undertone was preserved throughout the day. United States Steel was a particularly strong and active feature, but there was nothing In the trade news to account for the rise In the stock, and the movement was, therefore, attributed largely to the covering of shorts, although there has recently boon some buying by interests who can afford to wait for profits. American Can fluctuated in response to various interpretations of the annual report, which in some places was spoken of as disappointing, while in other quarters it was argued that the feature of the document was its conservatism, that the company was remarkably strong in current assets, and that but for liberal provision for maintenance, the surplus for the stocks could have been placed at figures well above those actually reported. That the year was a good one in the can making industry was shown by thq annual report of the Continental Can Co., whose earnings were equal to 10.68% on the common stock. Interruption of telegraphic communication, as a result of the storm, lessened the amount of business from out of town. The great strength in the wheat market, in which prices far surpassed previous records, tended to overshadow the market for stocks.
The enormous volume of cotton exports in the past couple of days has attracted favorable attention in prominent Wall Street quarters. For the past three days they have reached upwards of 208,000 bales, this being, perhaps, in excess of anything ever known iu .an equal period of time. The extent to which it exceeds the normal will be realized when it is stated that the average' shfpmerrt* at this time of year are about 1,000.000 bales a month. The fear of serious damage by floods in the middle west may have been one of the causes of the market’s hesitation; while there was also an inclination to wait for further information regarding the seriousness of Germany’s submarine attacks on British commerce, and the rumors of Zeppelin raids. The money market -was somewhat easier, particularly for the longer time periods, and a decline in exchange reflected the very heavy exports of cotton. The announcement that New York state will offer an issue of $27,000,000 bonds did not occasion surprise, and it was
believed that the time wai not yet close at hand when the demand from investors would become Insufficient to absorb new offerings. ' A favorable Interpretation was placed on the news that President Wilson was in favor of an amendment of the shipping bill to prohibit the purchase of ships of belligerent nations, because it was behoved that this limitation would remove from the measure all danger of international complications, and would moke the Government’s entrance into ocean transportation a matter of small importance if viewed only from the tonnage standpoint. The report late in the day that Great Britain had decided to regard food supplies destined for Germany, Austria and Turkey as absolute contraband received general credence, and was the cause of the market’s reactionary movement at the close, as traders thought it might affect the export business of the United States.
Transactions totaled 200,000 shares, and at the end advances outnumbered declines.
Strenprtli in Steel
While the volume of business at the opening was not large, stocks in general possessed a firm tone and United States Steel displayed substantial strength. The action of Steel was such ns to promote a bullish sentiment on the whole list and strengthen the belief that no further re-( duction of the minimum price on the stock itself would be necessary.	„
After opening % up at 40%. United States Steel soon advanced to 40%, the highest price at which it has sold since last Thursday. The preferred was steady and unchanged at 103%.
California Petroleum was a strong specialty and appeared to be receiving attention from the pool which recently put up the price of Mexican Petroleum. It advanced to 19% on a few sales, compared with 1834 at the close on Monday.
Union Pacific and Reading started unchanged, the former at 12034 and the latter at 147%. St. Paul sold eff % to 88 % as a result of the unfavorable statement for December which showed a large loss in gross and a i datively larger one in net.
■Rise in hiter.-M<»t.
During the first half hour or so the volume of activity was not great, but stocks in general were firm, with evidence of good buying in many places and of pool activity m a few issues. Tt looked a« if a now advance was starting, as the last rise had started, in th*' industrial list, in which the activity was relatively much greater than in the railroad issues.
Tnterborough-Mctropolitan preferred, on a few transactions. advanced to 54% compared with 53% at Monday’s close. There have been predictions for some t’me past of a rise in the stock tn discount a dividend declaration later in the year.
Western Union anil American Telephone & Te’egraph were active : nd both showed a slight tendency to advance The buying nf them was said to lie for investment.
Decline in Canadian
Towards the end of the fir.^t hour two or three stocks sold off rather sharply, and the general list sagged in sympathy, the trouble being a lack of interest rather than pressure of sales. Tho blockade on the subway reduced the attendance in the commission houses to small proportions. and business from out of town was delayed on account of wire trouble resulting from the sleet storm.	!
Canadian Pacific .-old off to 157 compared with 159V. at the dose on Monday Trader.- -aid the '•ellmg came! from London and Montreal. but there seemed to be bear! pressure on th.it i--uc intended to cicate the impression that the company*.- propet ty wa« m danger of *’ery «ertotw | damage from German sympathizers, and that Great Brit- < a*n was seriously alarmed over submarine activity and prospects of Zeppelin rani**.
Reaction in ('tin
Trading was dull during the second hour and prices in general eased off a little. Room traders were still decidedly bearish, arguing thut the recent decline had not gone far enough, and that the recovery in the past couple of days had resulted from the covering of shorts.
Following the publication of the American Can annual report, which showed onlv 2.4b': earned on the common stock, that issue sold off to 27% compared with a high of 29% earlier in the session, but there seemed to be good buying at the decline, and a few minutes later there w.is a recovery to a level above 28. The opinion was expressed in many places that the company nad charged its operating expenses heavily for repairs and improvements to plant, and that larger earnings could have been shown for the stock hud such charge-, been only normal.
American Hide X- Leather preferred advanced to 25% on a few transactions, thereby gaining 1%. It was contended that the company had assets in cxcew or $100 n share for the preferred stock, and that the business, which was stimulated by the European war. was likely to remain active for a long time to come.	.
Strength of Rcadinjr
During the early afternoon th** market was exceedingly quiet, but prices wore remarkably firm considering that there L usually a tendency to sag in periods of dullness.
Reading was a strong feature, selling up to 147% compared with a high of 147% m Monday’s market. The strength in the stock was the more noteworthy because the sentiment among the rank and file was very bearish , on that issue. There was hardly a little trader who could < see -why Reading should sell al>ove Union Pacific, and the . eagerness with which speculators urged arguments in ‘ favor of a large decline in it mav have been a reflex of a position on their own part on the near side.
The annual report of the Continental Can C'o tended to overcome the unfavorable impression created by the American Can Co.’s figures. Continental earned 10.68’,*: on its common stock; but except for a lot of 50 at 46. no business was done in the stock, which is a very inactive specialty, following the publication of the figures.
A brisk advance
A brisk rise occurred in the late afternoon, but it was checked around 2:30 p. m., and prices declined from the best on a report that Great Britain hud announced its intention to treat as contraband all foodstuffs consigned to Germany, Austria and Turkey. The traders said this would affect our exports seriously, but doubts on the point were expressed in some well informed quarters. The -shaip rise at about 2 o’clock followed the definite announcement that the President favored an amendment to the ehipping bill which would prohibit the purchase of ships of belligerents, as this change would remove the danger of the measure becoming a> cause of international complications. United States Steel led the advance, rising to 41% ; and Goodrich, which sold at 33, was another atrong feature.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.