THE STOCK MARKET: A FURTHER DECLINE
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 15, 1915;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 4
FURTHER DECLINE
amounting to between two and three points In the leading issues.	'
financial community had already prepared itself for any contingency that might arise..	-
The war order stocks -sold off sharply. Baldwin declining 3^ points to 40%, American Locomotive 1% points to 41, Bethlehem Steel 4% to 131, and Westinghouse 2 points to 86. The weak bull account in those issues seemed, however, to be nearly extinguished.	•
Bear pressure and forced liquidation caused sharp decline but a firmer tendency developed in late trading;.
w Sales 634.890 shares
A well known broker, on leaving the floor of the Stock Exchange after the close of business for the day. remarked that he had never seen worse selling than that which caused the decline in prices in the course of the session. There mav have been some - exhirfreration in his view, but there is no doubt that a very large proportion cf the sales were for short account, and that the remainder came chiefly from that class of speculators who generally buy on advances and sell on declines. There was no aggressive support for the market, and it could not be expected that there would be. Bankers were as much at sea as the other people in regard to the probable outcome of the present difficulty with Germany, and under the circumstances they would not have been justified in loading up with stocks for the purpose of arresting a decline in prices. To do so would have taken from them the power to render support at a time when the need of it might be greater, in the event that certain contingencies arose. The large interests were buyers; but as a rule they did not bid for stocks, and merely took what was cffered on recessions. The volume of business was much lighter than on the opening day of the week, there was a complete absence of demoralization, and the whole action cf the market was such as to indicate that the worst effect of the international difficulty had been felt on Monday. Leading issues like Steel, Reading, Union Pacific and Amalgamated Copper did not at any time get quite down to Monday’s low figures, although the two last named stocks very closely approximated them. In the last half hour a somewhat better tendency developed in the market, and the closing prices were generally a little above tlie lowest of the day.
In the highest banking quarters it is firmly asserted that never in its history has this country been as strong financially and commercially as it is today, and never has it been, in those respects, so well prepared as at present to meet any kind of crisis which might be forced upon it. What has been done by this country since the outbreak of the European war has proved a revelation. An indebt-• edness to Europe, estimated at $400,000,000. has been paid off; approximately *5225,000.000 has been loaned to other countries by the flotation of bonds and notes in Now York; and American securities to the value of several hundred million dollars have been bought back from foreign holders. The balance of trade is very heavily in our favor, business is everywhere improving, winter wheat gives promise of :m enormous yield, and other cTops have been planted under the most favorable conditions. The report of the Census Bureau on cotton consumption showed that American mills last month used much more of the staple than in April 1.' 1914, while the exports also largely exceeded those of a year ago.	•
Transactions totaled 684.000 shares, compared with 1.178,000 on Monday. At the end declines were general,
Over-Nijjlit Losses .	.
There was a great volume of activity at the opening, and the commission houses contributed a large volume of business to the selling side. There was, however, evidence cf good buying on a decline of about a point, and there was nothing to indicate a recurrence of anything approaching the semi-demoralized decline of Monday. In conservative quarters the belief prevailed that the firm demands of the United States would impress upon the German government the need of making a change in its present method of marine warfare.
To make the opening on Steel 7,000 shares were done simultaneously at 52, and while that was a decline of a point from the last sale on Thursday, it is to be remembered that the stock jumped % on a couple of small transactions just before the close on that day. After the lapse of a couple of minutes the price dropped another % to 51%. Amalgamated Copper opened % off at 65 %% Reading opened % down at 142%, and in Union Pacific the opening was made by sales simultaneously at 123% and 123%, compared with 124% at the close on Thursday. In Atchison the initial decline amounted to only %.
Some of the war order stocks showed strength, Westinghouse and Bethlehem Steel opening up, the former at 88% and the latter at 136.
Activity on Declines
The worst feature of the market in the first half hour was that the activity was greatest on declines, A few minutes after the opening the trading became comparatively dull but the activity was soon resumed, and at 10:150 < ’clock prices generally were under the earlier low figures.
In conservative quarters it was contended that the market was in good technical posit’on. weak holdings having been cleaned out, while there was a large volume of ciders on the buying side, for execution a few po'.nts under the prevailing level. Financial conditions generally are such as to withstand any kind of strain, and bargain hunters are alert for opportunities.
During the period when Steel held firmly at about 32, the traders said the stock was supported for effect on the general list; but it is doubtful if there was organized support anywhere, the buying being by people whose object was accumulation, and not maintenance of an artificial level of prices.
The fact was commented upon that there was a better demand for the standard railroad issues than for industrial specialties. This was regarded as an indication of a coming era of safer speculation than the market ha* been accustomed to of late.
Buying; mi a Scale
The volume of activity in the first hour was not great, and the selling seemed to be for the most part of the weakest kind. Si favorably impressed were some of the large houses with the indications t.iat the buying was much better than the selling, that they advised their stronger customers t<> begin making purchases on a scale down. There seemed to be practically unanimous approval of the‘Stand • taken bv the administration, and of the tone of tic note transmitted to the German government.
At its low point of 51, Steel showed a net recover?, of 2% from Monday’s break. Union Pacific held 1% above Monday’s low and Reading maintained a net gam of 3 points. This indicated that, as far as the market is concerned. the worst has already been seen; and while it was believed in many places that Germany would make concessions to the American demands, it was contended that the
Motor Stocks Weak
There was some raiding of the market in the second hour but on the whole the prevailing inclination was to do little pending receipt of the German reply to the United States’ note. As to what the reply would be there were &H sorts of opinions; but regarding the market there was practical unanimity on the point that after a sharp break, following a refusal, a substantial recovery would set in.
The stocks of the automobile and allied industries, were again weak features. Maxwell selling off 4% to 36? the first preferred 3% to 78, and the second off 4 points to 31, while Studebaker declined 3% to 60%, and Good-uch 1% to 40.
Reading was heavy and its action gave rise to rumors of an early decision in the anthracite rate case. The Street expected that the Interstate Commerce Commission would order a reduction of the transportation charges on hard coal; but while this seemed a reasonable expectation, there was nothing to indicate that the decision would be rendered in the near future.
An Interesting; Story '
In the early afternoon the market was subjected to renewecT selling pressure, causing a decline to levels lower than the lowest of the forenoon, although up to 1:30 p. m. the leading stocks, like Steel, Reading, Union Pacific, and Amalgamated Copper, were still a couple of points above the lowest of Monday’s break. Bears asked what would be the result, marketwise, if another ocean liner met the fate of the Lusitania, and sold a few more stocks every time the question was repeated.
It was said in conservative quarters that the Government has made inquiries as to the amount of war material which large manufacturing concerns could turn out. and has ascertained that United States Steel is the only one prepared to handle big orders and promise delivery in a comparatively short time It would &e an interesting situation if the Government, which is proceeding for the dissolution of the Steel Corporation, were obliged to depend upon that company to manufacture supplies in an emergency.
A prominent banker said that while he did not believe Germany would declare war, the only effect of a declaration would be that the United States would then be nominally “in a state of war,” without having to engage in war operations.
Near Low Figures
Selling to discount the worst continued during the late afternoon, but a great amount of it was for bear account and the best observers said that while there was a lack of incentive for buying, tlie technical position was becoming stronger every minute, on account of the formation nf a ‘■short interest and tho passing of stocks into better hands.
While it was not expected that the German reply to the American note would b? received for some time to come, it was thought not unlikely that intimations as to its* possible tenor might come from Berlin at almost any time. New York was well informed regarding the American note before it was transmitted, and it is possible that the world may be similarly informed in advance regarding the German reply.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.