THE STOCK MARKET: MORE LIQUIDATION Action of banks against continued ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 21, 1916;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.	„	.	..	.. _
MORE LIQUIDATION
Aeti«*n of hankw against continiied acceptance of war industrials in collateral loans sends prices dowp—Violent reactions in many quarters—Even rails suffer -to lim-. ited extent—Some previously -weak'speeial-i ties develop remarkable strength-
!	-	Sales, 1,586,300 shares.
After pursuing- a fairly steady course for the major part of the session, with alternating waves of i&> great violence, the- market broke badly* in the last hour and a half. This was partly due to the pressure now being exerted by hanks against the inclusion of large quantities of industrial stocks in call loan collateral, and partly to general expectation in the Street that more and more serious efforts toward peace will develop in the near future. These two influences really amount to the same thing. For the attitude of the banks seems -to be based on the ide.i that the* peace price of many industrial issues will be below recent levels. In the case of'Mercantile Marine issues, where the preferred lost over fourteen points, there was the additional menace to a distribution of dividend.; in the suggestion by Premier George of the nationalization of British ships on a line similar to that followed in tlie taking over of British railways. Atlantic, Gulf & West Indies was another heavy sufferer, dropping to the neighborhood of 105, after having sold on Tuesday at l«317-s, although this concern is not involved in trans-Atlantic trade. United States Steel went down with the rest below 10L\ and even the rails were obliged to give way in the face of the widespread liquidation.
Resistance to the general pressure was strong in certain quarters where there has been recent weakness, notably in the tire stocks~and the motors, as wdl as the distillers and Mexican issues. Tobacco products also held its own well, and special reasons produced advances in Panhandle and the Harvester Corporation. General Motors new stock signalized its advent on the Exchange b> selling at 130. This issue represents a division of t;x? old stock into 5 shares of the new. Tuesdays quotation for the old was bid and 800 aaked. The new quotation is equivalent to 050 for the old.
Upward tendency -
The opening wn* a rather tame affair, with the majority of Issues quoted fractionally above the close, and larger changes in the few cases where losses were recorded.
The general trend of the -first half hour was moderately upward, although Steel, after getting as high as 113, dropped back below 112. and Utah returned to the closing level. Other copper*, however, ruled firm.
A rising tendency was*general among the rails. New Tork Central recovered its early loss and Union Pacific increased its gain, selling to 150. C. & O. was marked up nearly a point at 67’<. Rock Island and other low-priced issues found considerable following.
liquidation of industrials
The behavior of the industrial list during the second half Lour reflected the attitude of tlie banks toward loans on such collateral, and especially on the stock of those issues which had derived their chief speculative vogue from war profits, ns already outlined by Dow. Jones & Co. The discrimination is directed especially against issues which are still held in speculative hands ami arc not dis-
tiflwted amrmg bnna fide holders. The object of 1be hanks is to eoaifinr their lous as laxx^y as	to
securities which have been digested and tberrfrrre always have an instant market, and to tents ^he stocks Into the hands of the ultimate investors to be put away in strong boxes, thereby eliminating the danger of an overhanging, undigested soppty of securities*
CaHforala ‘Petroleum’® prospect
California PeteoXeom at 56, ex $1 dividend, was up 1- This company has	back dividends to pay <m the
preferred, which is a 7% cumulative stock. The earnings for the current year axe estimated at 8% on the preferred, while nc&t year's earnings should be better than 12%. The company is carrying a large storage of crude oil, which shows a constantly increasing value on increasing oil prices which are 73 cents a gallon now against 40 cents average in the first six Months of the year. Development of the Bell Ranch tract is ejected to add materially to next year's production. The preferred is redeemable at 120. shares equal with common after T% dividends on the latter, lias a cumulative 5 cents staking fund a barrel and is entitled to elect the majority of directors when four quarterly dividends are in default.	.
Further irregularity expected
The market was still nervous and undecided during the early afternoon, but there were no such distinctly weak spots as shown in the early trading. It was an almost unanimous idea in the Street that affairs would remain in a fluctuating condition for several weeks until there has been time for Germany to make a reply to the forthcoming Allied-notes, if she intends so to do. In any event the suggestion of peace within the reasonably near future is sinking in, and adjustments looking to that end are going on. It is believed that the British replv was based on the assumption that conditions in Germany, both at home and in the field, are not so good as she would like to make the world believe and that, therefore, there is hope of a reasonable attitude by Germany. * Actions of avemgeR
Tn many minds the conviction has arisen that the action of the Federal Reserve Board last month in warnin'-the banks to keep their assets liquid was taken on sonic intimation of the coming German peace proposals. Jn view of'this it is interesting to note recent changes m the average prices for the different groups of securities. On the Saturday before tie Federal Reserve Board issued n.-» warning, that is on Nov. 25. ^hc average price of twenty railroad stocks included in the Dow, Jono, averages was 108.02, and on tne twenty industrials it was 109.95. After publication of the warning on Monday. Nov. 27. the average for the rail-x was 107.81 and for the industrials 1OS.23. From that time to I ridav last the rails declined to 106.22. and the industrials to 97.93, being a loss of 1.80 for the rails and 12.02 for the industrials. On Saturday a considerable upward movement occurred in both groups.
Since then, during all the excitement of the r-esent week, the rails have advanced to 107.31. while the industrials have lost further ground to 97.76. making similar comparisons for 29 active copper stocks, the record shows a quotation of 79.11 on Novomlicr 25, 68.33 on November 27. and 7*8.87 on Frida v last December 15. <w a net lo*?. <»f 11214.	’	*
In connection with the announcement by Dow, Jones X-Co. of the issuance bv a laige wire house of a circular letter regarding speculation ;n industrials it is developed that* several other large houses have sent out similar letter* to their branche- all over the country.
Extreme decline* in speculation	-
Extreme decline^ occurred in many issues during the later trading, best expressed by u few contrast*. Marine preferred fold as low as S6, against a high on Tuesday of IrtT’s. Gulf & West Indies was ciuoted at 105, against Tuesday's high of 131-^. United States Steel dropped back to 107**s. after 116H» on Tuesday. Utah sold at 98’*, compared with 109 on Tuesday.’ Central Leather’s comparative decline was nearly ten points, and that of American Zinc over nine points.
Meanwhile c few issues stood out strongly, including Harvester Corporation, which sold up £ points to 88. Fanhandle stock sold nt ST la, up 2^ on the strength of 5eo semi-annual dividend on the preferred and a 5^ declaration on the common, giving Loth issues 5*'r for the year, and approval of consolidation plans. Goodricn, Tobacco Products, Lee Tire. Studebaker, Willys-Overland and Alcohol an(l Distilling held their ground wonderfully well. Union Pacific remained near tho top on good buying and with renewed talk of an extra dividend.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.