THE STOCK MARKET: LIQUIDATION FOLLOWS RAID Being from the outset ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 29, 1917;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	____
' The average of prices in the industrials during the session went to a new low, while the rails managed to give a better account of themselves- The usual bear attack followed, induced by many outside factors and enhanced by the disinterested attitude of those who could have helped, but did not think the time opportune for holding the bag; out rather preferred to Jet prices slide and shake out tac pessimistic, making the conditions stronger for the next upward move.
”hhou<rh conditions of the country are sufficiently sound to warrant the belief of continued prosperity, the downward trend is likely to maintain itself with the usual upward reactions, while the country's business will go ahead with order books full for a long period, with unprecedented Government expenditures, and with large, profitable crops. Labor will be fully employed, and whatever the outcome of the final form of the revenue bill, capital will find Its share in tho general welfare.
The final week of the summer session is drawing to a close and is leaving the market in a more liquidated po-sitten than last year, although the turnover during the summer months was larger than in the corresponding period <rf 1916.
"W hile the close of the year is hot unlikely to see an end of the readjustment, dips in the market may be frequent with a slowing down in trading, but the .outlook for the future is bright* Declines should only be temporary compared with the long period of prosperity the country has experienced and the many bullish factors that will find expression when the securities distributed :n the last two years are digested.
Opening Dull and Soft
The opening was one of the dullest in all the recent dull days and with scarcely an exception prices wer*' fractionally lower.
The Marine issues sold off in small fraction* .and the rails alone showed irregularity as a group with both Lo
b4glx "Valley and Readkng maJoog tbe axnaBeat ^xf gatua.
The ticknr was idle about half <ba time.
Waiting Attitude
A slight improvement occurred in the steals as the first half hoar wore co, eeveral of the issues managing to get a trifle above the	level.
Anaconda was again weak, dropping to T2%, off 1 from the close, and just under the low point of Monday*. Eennecott, on the other hand, made a elight improvement.
Dealings were in only a few securities and the price changes which were shown were meaningless. No interest was taken even by the floor traders.
Everybody is still waiting for news from Washington r and every day's delay in the announcement of official prices for steel and copper lakes a little more energy out of what n left of the market.
Slight Gains
The overturn of the first hour was only 81,000 share3. Iimrovement in the steels continued, although it did not extend far. Roth the Marine issues picked up their earlier i losses and made *Hght net gains and the tobacco shares worked forward fractionally.
Butte <£• Superior was agajo a weak spot, selling off 1 l*k to	after losing over a point on Monday, due part-
ly to laboi conditions and partly to the large costs to the company on account of the unfavorable decision in the Mineralo Separation suit.
,	Bethlehem B Awaiting Official Plans
Bethlehem B shares moved like the rest of the market i only in small fractions pending official announcement of the new financing plan which involves subscription rights
*	at par to the common stock of both classes for $30,000,’
•	(700 new preferred stock to be converted at 115. The is-
•	sue has been underwritten at 96.
i	Street Looks Blue
The Street looks disconcertingly at the dull market ! with a dribbling liquidation, and fears are that If no sup-I port appears that would give a backbone to the list, the 1 week may see materially lower prices. Having in new ; the Saturday holiday and I^abor Day. no commitments of l magnitude are expected from the profcs«nonal crowd, i The public, a* iwuul, «tays out of the declining market, so that there arc only the big interests left to do tho buying, except wlvre in an issue here and there pools Live enough nerve to •tick tn their convictions. The outlook is not *o bad a* i- would apnmr on first blush. The country is not going to the dogs. and. just as in former tinK*<. when it appear* that tho market has no rallying pmie’* left, tho worst will be pa**ed and stocks on its
> own weight will *st»ek higher level.-*.
! Studebaker w.i* under pre*bure again during tiie sec* , ond hour and r«xkii ed it'* low record to -I**1**, off nearly 3 points from the opening and nearly 6 points from last
*	week. General Motors weakened in sympathy, selling I ciown to 109 h .
■	Suhdix Hton of Share*, and Its IlfTcct
Ohm Cltic- («.u- i- going tnraugn the same experience us so man; other good stock.-, tn.it have* in the last few years distributed n«»w stock m Luge volume or have reduced the par vuhn cf their stock with a view, of increasing the number of shares outstanding This was done to distribute snare* more and has had the desired effect, but mranauly gave the stock a black eve. Tho old holders pot out of tho *tr> k no supjxirt c.une in when the now weak holder.- got tmxi, and quotations slumped. It is an old Wall St’-eot axiom that when directors look nt the market end of the company instead of of the nusiness end it is time to get out
Motnch Vtrongly Interpreted as Essentially Wicked
In other quarters the market was irregular and indifferent. Wall Street ]*ersisi* in it* wicked purpose—as discovered bv certain politicians jn Washington, who have in turn been diMcovered b' tho New York World correspondent—of wuldmg the big stick over the Senate in iti consideration of th» Revenue bill, by keening out of tne market. Heretofore. Wall Street has Im?ch blamed by Washington for manipulating the market Nov.. it t* blamed for leaving the market severely alone What sinister motive* might be attributed from tins quarter to the financial center if it should make up it* nr.nd to clo*e the Exchange or. Thursday, when the c.*v i* to turn out in a grand farewell to the National Guard, and apr.n on Tnesda*. next, when the youth of the town to the number of noariv Bfi.OOn who nave	selected to go to the
war under draft law will recon e a similar *0114-011 Th:* would moan the closing of tho Exchange for five whole d.iv<« which would prob.wly sot the German natriots in Washington into n frenry.
Rubles and the Market
The action of ruble exchange or the stock market has ! not l*on of a* much effect lately ns earlier in the year. Snue ruble exchange, however, went to a new low of 19.70 in the dav’s trading ’ttention 1* again centered on Russia and its internal uno**** entics, which arc among the unset-i tling market factor.*
!	Concerted Bear Raid Im Successful
’ Tho bears took courage in the early afternon and mndo ! a successful drive at the market tn which they were en-1 coiirsicred by the action of the Semite in killing the proposed increase in letter t»ost.ige rates, thus putting a further burden on war taxation It is not believed that the confiscatory policy of Senators Borah, Johnson and I^a Follette can possib1;. lie successful. Nevertheless, their temporary victory in regard to postal rates is an indication of their strength.
■	Steel and eauipment stocks suffered heavily.
! Copper* suffered even more severely, with Utah down i nearly 4 to 97 Vx, and Anaconda at a recent low of 72.
i	Mismanagement
, -Another bearish factor was the apparent careless handling of the Anaconda strike, which, according to i Butte dispatches. has been left in the hands of the private i secretary of the president of the company.
| Demonstration of inefficiency on the part of the In, tserborough management in the handling erf the coni situa-j tion with a consequent tie-up of tho road last Saturday was [ in marked contrast with the efficiency with which the Qnv-I eminent is now operating, and was looked on in the Street j as a foi»bng of it* own nest by corporation managers.
■	New Wave of Selling
The success of the bear raid manifestly uncovered stop orders in the late trading and also induced renewed liquidation on the part of holders who usuallv get in nt high prices and liquidate near the bottom. In any case there was an unexpected outbreak of selling, resulting in the most active overturn in the last hour for any hour of the day and reversing tho usual rule by an increase of about 100.000 shares over the first hour. Tho pressure of antagonism nt Washington seemed to bo* having its effect on outside holder*, instead of *he cart pulling the horse as has been the Washington view.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.