THE STOCK MARKET: THE TIDE TURNS
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 15, 1917;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
Coup of a **roup of capitalist wlio pur-chase<l all the Steel common offered at SO checks the decline---------Railroads move upward with industrials------------Pessimists censured-----Callin** of loans.
Sales, 538.100 shares.
A better feeling spread throughout the financial district. This feeling was not created by word© of encouragement from Washington or from New York financial interests. It was created by action, embodied in buying orders for about 30,0-00 shares of Steel common when that stock seemed to be fading away on Thursday. The true intent of this remarkable buying did not come to the surface until trading had been under way for several hours. It dawned on the pessimists then that a group of capitalists had turned the market through sheer nerve, backed by money. The men behind the coup are not yet known, but the West is credited with being represented in this group. It was noticeable that buying orders from optimises in the West swept into Wall Street when the pessimists of the East were selling stock which they had vowed would ne»cr leave their strong boxes.
A business man who has spent years abroad, and who has just returned to this country, s?ums un the situation in a sentence, when he says that the only gloom over the war is found in Germany and the United States. Poor France and burdened Britain do not sec the gloom which some Americans have been seeing for the last few weeks. And it behooves certain American leaders, men of brains and financial power, to turn the tables on the pessimism so rampant. A stock market cannot flourish on pessimism.
The whole li.*c. industrials as w'ell as rails, showed improvement when Steel common hogan to lift its head. It is impossible to read the exact course of the market in a day’s transactions. Suffice to say that the biggest interests in the Street were buyers of steel and railroad shares because they believed in the merits of these issues and in the business foundation of the United States. The state-
ment made elsewhere in this column and credited to one of the most conservative Stock Exchange houses to the effect that stocks purchased at present levels would make future American fortunes for holders was the kind of constructive influence which helped to turn the tide.
A Quiet Opening
Market opened fractionally higher. Buying orders were scattered. . There was no concerted buying in any one issue and the largest block in Steel common appearing on the tape in -die first ten minutes was 1,000 shares. There was no overnight news of any consequence or of a special bearing on the sto.k market. The terrific gelling of Thursday and Wednesday remained as much a mystery in leading commission houses as in the minds of the public.
Marine preferred, selling ex-dividend $10. gained at 77. Steel common was up % at 82, but lost its gair. Igickawanna Steel, ex-dividend $3, was off % at 70%. Bethlehem B, ex-dividend $2.50, was up % at 67%.
Kails were inactive and early sales showed no trend in this department
Many traders and employes were absent from business owing to the big snow storm which delayed traffic on all lines.
Weakness in Marine Preferred
Stocks sagged toward the end of the first half hour. Calls for margins from brokerage houses accounted for much of the selling. Buying was scattered. Undoubtedly the public is buying some stocks at present attractive levels.
Special weakness developed in Marine preferred, which was off % at 75. after allowing for the dividend. General Electric yielded 1% from it*, high to 118%. Rails continued inactive. Northern Pacific made a new low at 78% on a small turnover. Reading held well.
American Hide & Leather Preferred
American Hide & Leather preferred gained 1% to 46%. Thursday’s drop of 3 points m this stock in a short period was attributed to selling for an account which being liquidated. There was *• stop ut 49, and when the stock broke through this point, about 2,000 shares were for sale. One of the largest holders of Hide & Leather preferred states that there was nothing to justify the break in the stock, other than the general situation. The company, he said, was getting large Government orders which would increase in volume as the new armies were increasing. It is understood that earnings for the December quarter are running more than 75% ahead of earnings for the Septenilw?r quarter.
Those Wall Stret t War Pessimists
It is surprising to see so many war pessimists in Wall Street. The «ame persons who pi edict the ultimate success of the Allies appear to bo expecting a serious reverse on the western front. Some of the most conservative newspapers have been adding to the alarm. first sounded in last Alondav’s war statement of Secretary Baker. The war dispatches arc not half as pessimistic as the editorial comment on the prospective attack by the German*?. It goes without saying that the French ur.d British arc ready for a monster attack. Tne side which assumes the offensive, under massing of artillery and men, can mal:o temporary gains. The lessons of the Marne and Verdun, however, arc not lost sight of. It would help the stock market if there were less of the pessimistic discussions regarding the war situation on the w^tern front. A decision, if there is to be one. is at least weeks off. Any extended offensive of infantry must be preceded by week* of artillery fire and it is too early now to forecast a decision.
Good Buying in All Issues
Low priced issues assumed prominence in the second half-hour. A concerted buying wave started in Willys-Ovorland. and was taken up in Maxwell second preferred mid Studebaker. These three issues gained a point each. Then the buying spread to the Steels and American Smelters, and the whole market was lifted about a point from tlie closing level. Rails shared in the swing, and Northern Pacific. Louisville & Nu*hvillv. Cunndian Pacific, and .Atchison, and similar investment issues jumped over broad gaps between sales. Action in mils suggested a considerable short interest. Big buving is coming from the West.	’
Loose-Wiles first preferred, selling ex-dividend, was up 3% at S0%. New York Air Brake was up 3 at 103. Continental Insurance Co. stock sold 7C0 shares at 38, off 3. Maxwell Motors second preferred showed a net gain of 2, at 20. The first preferred was up 2, at 52.
Advice Which Ought to Be Muzzled
Assignment of a Stock Exchange firm had little to do with the break on Thursday. According to reports in commission houses the selling was very general in the east. The argument that rails and industrials must be sold by the public in order to buy Liberty bonds, probably induced selling of investment stocks. This argument sounds logical but can be punctured with holes. Thete is enough money in this country to purchase both Liberty bonds and commercial investments. Washington itself does not lend encouragement to such destructive views. It would undermine the credit behind the Liberty bonds if the advice were carried out very generally.	.
25-ccnt Copper Hoped For
Strength of the market in the second hour was credited to favorable expectations as a result of the conference of copper men in Washington. There is talk of 25cent copper beginning February 1. The copper men, it is said, have indisputable facts in their possession which will warrant the increase in the Government’s price from 23% cents to 25 cents a pound. Steel men arc also in Washington, but no definite clue has been received as to new steel prices. The impression which existed two weeks ago that basic prices would be reduced docs not exist now in conservative quarters.
The Steel Coup
Buying of Steel common around 80 in Thursday’s break was the talk of the market. Large stop orders were released at this point and about 30,000 shares were thrown on the market in a few minutes. Instead of breaking the market, however, Steel rallied 1% points. It is now said that the buying came from excellent sources and that more stock would have been taken if it had been offered. The buy ers have not been revealed, but the impression prevails in influential Stock Exchange houses that a small group of capitalists engineered the coup. After Steel touched 80, according to brokers in these houses, the buying all through the list was better than the selling.
Calling of Loans
Calling of loans continues. The banks are drawing on brokerage houses in order to meet interest payments on the 3%% Liberty Loan bonds, which are due Saturday. The interest money is on deposit with banks for Government account. Payment* of 40% on the new Liberty bond is due Saturday and this should alleviate the money tightness. The view is held in some quarters that the money shortage was discounted in the bad breaks of the last few days and that the money market will be straightened out at the beginning of the new week.
High Yield Basis of Tobacco Stocks
Particular strength wus found in steel issues and tobacco shares in the second hour. Cigar Stores gained 1% to 84 and Tobacco Products 1% to 44%. There never was a time when tobacco stocks could be purchased on such a high yield basis. Tobacco Products, for instance, is yielding about 14% at the present level.
Sound Advice by a Conservative House
One of the most conservative stock exchange houses in AV all Street sent this statement over its wires when Steel common was selling at 82%:
“The result of the recent big declines has produced a level of prices from which many fortunes will be made by the people who buy and hold stocks.”
1’. S. Steel Interests Buying Their Stock
This, expression of sentiment is typical of many messages that were seal out during the day. The action of Steel common transformed the whole market. Steel sold repeatedly btlow 82 but it was plain to see that a large buying power was present. U. S. Steel Corporation interests were nig buyer* of both the common and preferred. This was the firs’, evidence of good buying which could be traced. In the early afternoon trading in Steel touched 82"h-
Industrials and rails all moved up under the stimulation of Steel common’, action. General Electric. Republic. Crucible. Marine preferred, equipments and oil sto.ks were in big demand. Tobacco Products made a new high for the day nt 45. Union Pacific. Canadian Pacific, Delaware £ Hudson. Reamng. New York Central and Chesapeake Ohio all made highs for the day There were rumois of important new* announcements from Washington	‘
Big Break in St<»wart-Warner Speedometer
Stewart-Warner Speedometer Corporation stock a very inactive is*.uc sold on the Exchange in a 100-shaic lot at i:». off 37 point* from the last previou* sale on Jan. 17 la*t. Since that time the stock has *old ex-dividend $6.
Bethlehem Steel Market Inconsistencies
Bethlehem Steel *B" sold down as Iowa* 66% in the eiuly trading. The extent of the decline in Bethlehem common is shown by the fact that G6’* i* the equivalent of lf-Pt for the old stock. Therefore. Bethlehem Steel has actually declined 333 % points from the high record of 700 fox the old stock.
Dow, Jones Co.’s analysis of ten months’ statement of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, showing that $52 would be earned on the common stock this year: that the company had on hand more than $93,000,000 cash and securities; that the book value of the common stock was $20 a sha.ro. and that the Government would make initial advances of $15,000,000, indicated that the decline in Bethlehem securities had been overdone. With $122 a share earned for the common in two years it i* obvious that Bethlehem Steel common tdock is selling far below »ts intrinsic value. The same can be said of Steel common. Republic Steel and Lackawanna.	.
Highest Prices in Last Hour
Highest prices of the day- were made in the closing hour. Industrials and rails moved' together. Principal buying was in Steel common. Reading, Union Pacific, and a few specialties. American International, selling exdividend of 90 cent*, a share, sold up to 54%, compared with the closing price of 50% on Thursday. Ohio Cities Gas moved up 2 to 34%. American Can, Corn Products, and Cane Sugar made high marks. Central Leather gained J.% to 59%.
Concerted buying of big financial interests was credited for the turn in the stock market. These interests were buyers of Steel and Bethlehem issues.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.