THE STOCK MARKET: PATIENCE REWARDED President Wilson's plan of ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 28, 1917;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
PATIENCE REWARDED
I*resi<lent Wilson’s plan of Government operation. of railroads meets general approval---Rail stocks advance 2 to 16 points
---Industrials also buoyant in bijj session--- More bullish ammunition expecte<l------Shorts
run to cover.
Sales, 1.199.100 Shares
Erie first preferred, and New Haven, gained over 2 points each. New York Central gained TVs at 71, and Great Northern preferred 4% at So. Baltimore & Ohio common sold ut 55, up 15)4.
President’s Proclamation Came Quicker Than Expected
It had been generally expected that the President’s railroad proclamation would not be issued until Dec. 31. There was an	"	*	...
ing circles on the best kind pointed out in
A revolutionary but constructive thing came out of Washington. It came overnight, and although it had generally been expected only a very few received big advantage from it. It was the one big thing which Wall Street had been counting for and yet the pessimism so rampant in Wall Street had not permitted the discounting of the fact. The plan of Government operation of the transportation systems of the country through a Federal Director annealed to everyone as so sane and logical that it created more enthusiasm in the financial district plan any other single accomplishment of the Wilson Administration. The stock market boiled with enthusiasm. Leading rail issues jumped from 2 to about 16 points in an endeavor to catch up with the progressive action of the President. The shorts paid dearly.
The development was very much in line with the suggestions made in this column. The patience of the shrewd bankers and investors who were willing to buy railroad stocks earlier in the week, in the face "	'	’
weakness of the market, was rewarded, ment did not make any mention of the labor problem, but there was an intimation in the day’s dispatches that this problem would also be settled in the near future. One of the railroad brotherhoods, in fact, let it be known that it-- membership would stand bodily behind the President. There is room for another vent of enthusiasm when the labor problem for the railroads will have been solved. If labor pledges itself to a definite policy for the course of the war. a policy which will not permit of strikes, and which will permit arbitration of differences, the effect of securities values should he wholesome.
The President’s action was so generally approved that it was only natural to sec a buoyant wave in industrials as well as in rail stocks. Dormant issues came to life. Pool managers saw their advantages and placed their specialties in the front row. The public bought eagerly both in rails and industrials and bid stocks up in lively and this helped
of the general The announce-
dispatches that
fashion. Call money rates dropped speculation.
Wild Scramble for
Prices of railroad stocks on the
Rails
. _	Stock Exchange were
up from 2 to 14 points on the sensational announcement by the President of the United States of Government operation of the railroads. The views expressed by the President were favorably received in every quarter and there was no room for a conflict of opinions. Under the circumstances there was a scramble for stocks in which a nervous short interest was competing with other interests which had held off m buying orders unti’ a definite announcement on the Government’s policy wa< out of the way. In commission houses there was much figuring as to the relative merits of stocks under the new 7101 icy. The consensus of opinion indicated that all rails would be benefit?'., in the early scramble there wa« not much discrimination but that will undoubtedly make it? appearance when the initial excitement disappears.	.
Wide Opening Prices
the first few sales, advanced common was second, with a Atchison gained SH: to 78. 5% to 47 Union Pacific
inkling of important developments in bank-Wednesday, however, and quiet buying'of was going on in the rail stocks. Thia was this column when the market was weakest.
Many Gross Inconsistencies
In the first half hour the rail market boiled and gross inconsistencies and wide fluctuations were noted. Stocks like the Erie.,, Chesapeake &, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Southern Railway and Rock Island issues enjoyed a close market, but the high priced i-^ucs acted in crazy fashion. Delaware & Hudson, for instance, dropped 6 points between sales. St. Paul common dropped fiom 49 to 441-4, and Baltimore &. Ohio from 57 to 51%. Shorts bid widely for stocks. Market orders proved very dangerous for they wore executed in some instances at points $10 to $15 higher than the buver had expected to pay.' The market hud not made such a wild exhibition since the peace break a year ago.
The Salient Points of the Government’s Plan
In the formal proclamation of the railroad situation and in the accompanying statement of President .Ison there are a number of specific points which interest tNall Street particularly. These may be enumerated as follows: First, there is no specific mention as to whether the Government intends to operate the Toads only for the period of the war, ’ but the law giving the President authority to take over the railroads limits government operation to the war period. Second, Director McAdoo must enter upon negotiation^ with the various railroad companies looking to agreement for just and reasonable compensation and the average net operating incomb for the threc-vcar period ending June 30, 1917. to be used as a basis for calculation-;. Third, this method of compensation implies further legislation by Congress. Fourth, it is provided that all railroads bhull be maintained in good repair. Fifth, regular dividends and fixed charges may b'' paid unless tne director shall specify otherwise. Sixth, the railroads may urrangt f«>'" renewal- and extensions in maturing obligations unless the director snccifies to the contrary. Seventh, no attachment shall bo levied against any railroad property used in the conduct of business, except with permission of the Dlrerto-, but suits may be brought through the regular channels.'
Selective Buying Makes Its Appearance
After the early reactions selective buying made it* appearance in the rail list. Baltimore & Ohio came hack 2 points from its low of 49 h:. Reading and the Eric issues were ulso favored. Great Northern preferred high towards the end of xnc first Union was taken well.
2i,-2*"4 Semi-Annual Div', on B. & O.
The	semi-annual dividend
which is to come up for consideration in view of the turn of affiur*. The avr . income guaranteed for the Baltimore & Ohio will be $2. 291.VGO. only Sl.GGrj'On under th“ lflG earning* when 7.40r/ wa« shown on the common. The guaranteed earnings an bettered by $2 JCHJ.cOO than tne IL'15 earnings when 5.34 r'f was car’cc: on tr.e common. The loxx price for
B.
hour at
Delaware £ Hudson, in 14 points to 106. St. Pnul gain of 12?* points to 49. Chesapeake & Ohio gained gained 8-h at 112. Low priced issues, like Erie common.
only xva * ar< bettered by $2 5.34 r< was car'U'ci on
& O. m 191,” was
Growth in
Enp Railroad ?i:.S42.(H»0. wl.
v year <liv idend condition
dicating a million share day. Shipping, leather, oil, to-b&cco, alcohol, steel and copper stocks all went to high prices for the day.
Central Leather gained 3)4 to €2 and Hide & Leather preferred 2% to 49%. A short interest exists in both these stocks. Steel common was up 4)4 at the high of 87%. Mexican Petroleum, gained 2% at 76%. Tobacco Products was active and up 2 at 48. Coppers were higher.
A New Pool in Industrial Alcohol
A new pool started operations in Industrial Alcohol and carried the price up 5% to 115. The company is earning between $70 and $80 a share after all taxes and an important group of shareholders is looking for an extra dividend next year in addition to the	*	” ?
dend of $16. Most of the 1918 output has high prices and, therefore, large earnings twelve months seem assured.
Shipping Stocks Favored
Shipping stocks were favored because it they would reflect th«* benefits obtained by from Government operation. Ender the proclamation such controlled lines as the Morgan Line and. the Old Dominion will fall under Government operation. Atlantic-Gulf is not owned or controlled by any railroad, but it is under Interstate Commerce Commission supervision and, therefore, it may be benefited. Atlantic-Gulf common adx-anced 3% points to 100)s. It sells cx-dividend of S3 on Friday. Marine preferred advanced 3% to SIS*.
Call Money at S»/2%
Cull money rates dropped %% to	and this fur-
ther stimulated trading.
Among the few stocks to show losses was International Nickel, which sold off 1 % to 25. The stock had been heavy for the week.
regular divi-been sold at for the next
Some Profit Taking
Steel issues, after making new high marks for the day, reacted a point on profit taking in the last hour. There was some profit taking also m the more active railroad stocks. At the same time a few of the rails made new highs for the day. These included Missouri Pacific preferred, Great Northern preferred. Wheeling & Lake Ene issues and Pittsburgh & West Virginia preferred.
Motors took on life under the leadership of General Motors which advanced 2 to 95. American Tobacco sold up 4S< to 137. Industrial A1 coho! made a new high at 117% and then reacted 2 points in a few sales.
Some confusion arises over the question whether the “	‘	'	earnings for the railroads,
the item of net been heard on that taxes are Interstate Com-statistics. taxes
Government, in calculating will include all taxes before making up operating income. Nothing definite has this point, but the impression prevails allowed for. In the blanks used by the merce Commission for keeping railroad are always subtracted before net operating income is computed. These taxes include the regular, as well as the excess profits taxes.
made a new
87, up 7%.
Common on B. & on
Now Likely
O. common, 'an. 12. looks safe life net operating
Equities of Erie Issues Possible
x ill be guaranteed net operating incom" * b S2.5MO.000 grant rt than the earn* e id“»l June *U». 1917. Since Erie issues and *inec tne road xx.il bv maintained unde’’ Government management, the
of
mgs for t’
receive no
in good .............
equities in Eric stocks should grow under the new order.
The Joke Is on the Tax Dodgers
There has neon huge liquidation of railroad issues by corporation*. ni(hv”rial:' and estates with tne xioxx o registering lo-'sC-' f< * th*' Income Tax. Tms mdi*crimm*it • selling, it is obxitHH. ha.* not proved profitable. Undoubtedly much of the st sold must be replaced and ;t will have to b< replaced .it higher figures.
Equipments Helped by New Regime
Government operation of railroads should help the equipment stocks. TIp-p was good buying of Baldwin, which advanced 3lx to 57’-^; and American Locomotive, which advanced I7-* to 51-Jx. Practically all the railroads arc behind on equipment, and if the Government works the railroads to caparity. it must add to the rolling stock. This should prove a boon to the equipment companies, •even if they arc forced to sell at prices fixed by the Government.
American Cun advanced quietly to oG’l for a gam of 2a-. Tobacco and motor stocks were also higher. General Electric sold off about 2 points to 122%.
Picking Out the Winners
Proof of selective buying in the rail list was found in the second hour when a number of fax’ xrite issues advanced to levels higher than the opening levels. In this list were Chesapeake & Ohio. Erie first preferred. Great Northern preferred, nil the Rock Island issues, Missouri Pacific issues. Wheeling & Lake Eric issues, and Reading. Rock Island GG- preferred showed a not gam of 2 3 points at 49. It advanced a point ut a time from 43 to the high. The last 4 points were scored on sales of only 600 shares. The common gained 3% to 1714.
Strength in American Locomotive
Equipments went higher with American Locomotive leading for a gain of 3% nt 52)i. Steel common and Republic Steel made now highs for the day. Off stocks weie also favored.
Present Basic Steel Prices Assured
In the excitement over the raihond proclamation little attention was directed to the statement of steed authorities, that steel prices would be continued on their prc*?ent schedule for a long time to come and that a Presidential proclamation to this effect would bo issued soon. It will bo racallod that declines in steel issues in the last few weeks; wore blamed on fears of loxver basic prices for steel products.
Steel Corporation’s Stock Offer to Employes
The strength of Steel common suggests that the Steel Corporation has bought some or all of the'50,000 shares of common stock which it will offer its employes for subscription after the turn of the new year -The price has not been fixed. Last year 67,410 employes of the corporation purchased Steel common at $107 a share. When Steel touched 80 a week ago it was the buying of the corporation* it is understood which caused the quick rebound. It was said that about 10,000 shares had been picked up between 80 and 82. The offering price to employes is usually about 5 points below the market price.
Specialties Move Up
Enthusiasm was carried from the rail list into the industrial in the early afternoon. This made a great difference in the volume of trading and at one o’clock a totflj. of 854,000 shares of stocks had been traded in* in-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.