THE STOCK MARKET: PRICES MOVE WITH VIGOUR
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jan 4, 1917;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
I'nited State** Steel rea^sunrec* leadership—Cancellation of war contracts lias no deterrent cfTec-t on tbe prices of equipment shares—Copiiers and rails make little re-hjiowm*—Snjrar an<l leal her shares strong:-
Railway labor situation a drawback.
Sales, 1,16.5.000 shares.
After a. hesitating opening the market accumulates strength throughout nearly the entire (session. United States Steel assumed the leadership and moved vigorously upward above 114. after having sold as low as 108 on Tuesday. and 1001* on the day of the Lansing panic, when the Secretary of State undertook to make a reasonable explanation of the President** peace note to the world.
1 This was also the day with reference to which a paper out ? in Iowa, intending to say that II. $5. Steel contributed > ' 574.900 shares to the market overturn, unfortunately made the print read U. S. Stone, which induced Senator ‘ Stone of Missouri to deny solemnly in the Senate that he , on that day sold over $50,000,000 of stocks on the New York Exchange.
lx>rd Northcliffe’s papers demand the recall of the Suloniki expedition, as the campaign is useless. Washing- 1 ton hears that the Pershing expedition is to be with-
. drawn.	-
t	Transportation difficulties continue, \shich may force
! some more mills und furnaces to close down temporarily. , ; Labor troubles arc hampering the Cuban sugar mills. Importation of strike breakers from this country has been tried and found impracticable. There are also transportation difficulties on the island.
Opening* indifferent
The opening wu.-. accomplished in rather a desultory and aimless manner, owing to the conflicting reports appearing the morning papers. United States Steel sold to 1103*. up over a point. There were only fractional changes , in the other issuer of the steel and equipment group. ’ Such changes as there were appeared on both side*, of the ! hue Central Leather went through its usual broad fluct-I uations and wa> quoted us high as S91*. up 13*..
I Although tho fact of the cancellation of between Sioo.-■ uoo.UUU and $2(Ki.0U<i.(»0O war contracts in this country vns spread broadcast m the morning papers, the steel and leuuipment e>tocko throughout the first half hour gained 1 ground -:<»adily. in ncarh all cases ranging v.ell above 1 Tuesday ’> c lose.
! Steel*" ext rat
! (’omnnssion house business was reported to be cx: trcmvly light throughout the first hour, but none the lc*’. [a good market was found for United States Steel at advancing prices, the quotation moving above 112 on a heu\y overturn. The Street seems to be firmly con vim cd that the directors will make a generous distribution of profits at the coming meeting, the extra dividend being set at anywhere from $3 50 to $5 a share The buying came m large blocks and was evidently not from general public sources.	.
the Carranza outfit and the restoration of a reasonably stable government under the auspices of the legalistio party within the next few weeks. It is not believed that Carranza can or will make any strenuous efforts to overcome the growing movement for co-operation among all the opposing elements.
iieneral strength
A generally strong tone prevailed in nearly every quarter, even including Marine issues. The rail- were ‘till in comparative disfavor and their situation was not helped by* reports from Washington that Congress would in al! likelihood fail to take any action on the President**; program for ’egislation which Mould make strikes difficult, if not impossible.
VttrlJter upward 1 rend
Trading looked comparatively dull during the second hour, but by noon the overturn had amounted tr> 5)0.000 shares. The general trend was upward, with the steels and equipment issues still in good demand. Specialties made further advances, the Marine and motor issues holding firm.
In the copper list moderate advances Mere the rule. Utah sold up over a point from Tuesday’s close, rind the oth**r issues fluctuated irregularly between the closing levels and the early' morning highs. Rails were-«t:!l inert. although Southern Railway moved up over a point V» 33%. Fears of any general strike before the Supreme Court has had time to listen tn the arguments and make its ruling on the Adamson eight-hour law were allayed by the fact thut tho brotherhood chiefs had called a meeting of th** 800 chairman of district lodges tn discuss the situation. It is not believed that the men will go to the extreme of voting for a strike pending the Supreme Court decision.	*	,
St renjrt.li i** mainiained
During the early afternoon prices hold well to tbr high levels established in the JWDinc. There was no influx of new business, but the trading community ww«l to have lost its bearish attitude and made it* turnovers on generally advancing prices.	.
Mexican Petroleum moved up to 101 against a low on Tuesday of 93. American Smelting apparently -^ound *ur* th<*r encouragement in the Mexican situation with an advance of ]<)*> romna^ed with a low on Tuesday of 104’a. Tho Street still seemed to think thut any change in Mexico will bo for the better. "
New	in pn^vnt movement
Un’twl States Steel still led the market in the late trading. . ell.ng above 114. The general fond was also upward, including a new high record for new General Motors ..lock at 142. equal to a quotation of 710 on tho old stork American Roct Sugar sold at 9S, compared with a low ot 91 on Tuesday. C entral Leather passed the 95 main., comparing x'itn a low of bGa* on Tuesday.
The Mexican Sil nation
Mexr an Petroleum had a bold advance to par. an indication that the Street is inclined to discount the fall of
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.