THE STOCK MARKET: PUBLIC IS BUYING Runaway market in ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jan 3, 1918;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4	___________
THE STOCK MARKET
common 80 points. The swing of the pendulum went much^oo far. Those who argue that there must be a great ' curtaument of pleasure cars in this country on account of the war lose sight of the fact that ordinary automobile transportation needs which cannot be eliminated haphazard call for an expenditure of no less than $650,000,000 a year. The farmer in Iowa who owns a Ford has supplanted a horse or two by buying his motor car. He will always own a car as a means of commercial transportation as well as for pleasure. Placing of $1,000,000,000 of Government business with the motor companies adds so much additional to the gross revenue. If the net returns on this one’ billion or war business is only 10%, or $100,000,000, the 4,492,683 shares of stock representing the twenty companies mentioned would share on an average of over. $20 each on this business alone.
Another Buying Wave
A third reaction came in the last hour and again stocks rebounded with a -remarkable display of strength. This time St'eel made a new high at 94%. The response followed th j announcement of the Steel Corporation that Steel employes would have the right to subscribe to Steel common at 92. In former occasions there was a spread of $4 to $5 a share between the offering price and the market price.
Among the favorites on the third bulge were Goodrich Rubber which sold up 1% to 39%, and Marine preferred which sold up 2% to 86. The copper stocks and American Smelting also became active and sold higher. The buying in the coppers seems to center in Inspiration.
Hide & Leather preferred sold up 2% at 52%. The December quarter of the American Hide & Leather Co., it is understood, will show earnings about twice as large as those for the September quarter.
In the course of the reaction General Electric sold off 4% from the high to 133%.
PUBLIC IS BUYING
Runaway market in industrials—Motors and steels lead—The public take tiling's in its own hands-' Reace rumors again figure in trading—Ralls neglected.
Sales, 1,183,200 shares.
Trading in stocks on the first business day of the new year was on a very large scale and indicated public participation. All reactions were overcome easily by waves of buying orders. The market was broad, with U. S. Steel common firmly retrenched as the leader. The market gauiel-even more momentum than it did on the last day of the old year.	*
A number of views were advanced for the healthy action of stocks. In one quarter the view was held that the Government’s policy towards big business was the predominating influence. In other quarters much weight was given to peace talk and it was argued that peace would come through the economic, break-down of- Germany. It might be said that some very large, banking interests are looking for peace on this basis within two months. The buying, however, carried war shares as well as the so-called peace shares upward and this lack of discrimination threw cold water on the peace rumors. Announcement ounng the day that there had been a hitch in the Russo-German peace negotiations particularly stimulated trading in the old-line war stocks.	.
In the^ course of the boiling market in the industrial list the railroads were much neglected. Only a few of them showed signs of accumulation. While pressure was absent the public did not seem to be eager to look for bargains among rails. Some banking interests say that they will see no attractions in rail stocks until Congress affirms the main points in the recent Presidential proclamation. These interests would like to see Congress specify Government operation for a period of years, pref-e*tending safely beyond the day when peace terms will be signed. In such an event, thev say, there would be great potentialities in the rail list. For the present the inquiry for good railroad bonds is better than for railroad stocks on the ground that payment of bond coupons, coming ahead of dividends on stock, will be assured beyond a question of doubt.	"
The biggest interest w-as manifested in motor and steel stocks. Oils, leathers, tobaccos, alcohol and many specialties also received favor.
Enthusiasm in Industrials at Opening
The industrial market showed great enthusiasm at the opening. Rails were inactive and only a few changes appeared in the early trading. Peace talk received some consideration, judging by activity in industrials likely to be benefited by peace.	;
Steel common made a new high on the movement at 91?s. Equipments gained nearly a point. Tobacco stocks were up about %. General Motors'gained 2% at 107%, a high on the movement, and Studebaker was up 1 at 30%. Willys-Overland was also strong. Bethlehem B .vas fractionally higher but did not figure as prominently as the so called peace issues. Distillers and Cuban Cane were taken up to high marks on the movement.
A Boiling Market
In the second fifteen-minute period the market took on the aspects of a tremendous bull market. Sales appeared in large blocks and steel came back into prime leadership. Steel advanced 2% to 93%, in long strings of sales. Bethlehem B, Crucible and Republic were taken up in turn and rushed up about 2 points each. Marine PnA-eITed Sold t0 a new high at S5> and Atlantic Gulf to 100/4.
Studebaker and Willvs-Overland made highs on the movement. C---------’	.
up 2%. Distillers. Com Products, American Can ClinK	__ ____1 ___ . ■»	.	... -	’
were very.small General Motors has advanced steadily from 74%, the low of 1917. ..There is mnrfi -talk of a deal between General Motors and Chevrolet whereby General Motors, the larger of the two companies, would control Chevrolet At the present time Chevrolet controls General Motors. Nothing definite has been ascertained on this point.
Trading Fraternity Committed to Bull Side
The first wave of enthusiasm at. the beginning of the new yearwas credited in commission houses to accumulated buying orders. The market continued advancing beyond all, expectations, however, and the conclusion was then reached that the whole trading fraternity on the floor of the Exchange had committed itself to the bull side.
Profit-taking Absorbed
Reactions followed in the second half hour but not much stock w-as brought out. Profit taking resulted in declines as much as 3 to 4 points in the high priced issues ?ad en-j°yed big rises. The stock market gave every indication of public participation on a big scale.
General Motors, after gaining 11% to 116, reacted to 110^ Chevro!et Motor on the Curb gained 11 points to
Texas Co.’s Record Month
Texas Co. stock sold up 7 points to 146 and then reacted to 143. The month of November was the biggest month in the history of the companly. About 40% of the business of the Texas Co. is in foreign trade and the company’s ships are engaged in carrying oil and gasoline to the Allies. That is why few of the company’s ships can be commandeered. Buying of Texas Co. by big interests has been actuated by big earnings.	.
Attractiveness of General Electric Stock Offering
General Electric made another spurt of 5% to 138, and then reacted 2 points. The stock offering, which will be voted on by stockholders on Thursday at Schenectady, looks very attractive now. General Electric rights have been advancing steadily.
A block of 3,900 shares of Consolidated Gas of N. 1’., appeared on the tape at 87, up 1%. Talk of municipal ownership under the Hylan administration continues.
The Allies and Russia
London gives more importance to peace talk after the holiday than it did before. It is stated in dispatches that Lloyd George has arranged to visit France in order to confer with the French Premier on the German peace offer. It is also stated that Great Britain, France, Italy and the United States are exchanging views on the subject. The immediate question under discussion, it is probable, concerns the attitude which the Allies will take towards Russia. If left to herself Russia will be forced to make a disadvantageous peace with Germany. Sentiment among the Allies in the last forty-eight hours seems to have switched towards the view of helping Russia rather than leaving her. stranded. The reported retirement of the British Ambassador at Petrograd may have a bearing on the general situation.
Big Buying of Steel Common
Stocks offered on profit taking in the leading issues were absorbed in about thirty minutes of trading, and at 12 o clock the market started on a second upward swing. New high prices for the day were made in Steel, American Can, Studebaker and Central Leather. One house, which is always a big trader in Steel, purchased 20,000 shares of Steel common and large blocks of American Can. The latter sold up 2% to 40%.	..
• . ‘*0 " Strength in International Par
T .	..	, _	per Common
International Paper con"
port of earnings	UP 1% to 30%. Re.	* _	ctie year are due soon and should show
....................... ...... a share earned.
General Electric sold to a newhigh at 135- •y-l'-'ui’ns Bros, was more active and sold up to 113%, a rh’llnve	__ iorh. CT1 thft mnvnmbnt
Cane and Superior Steel were others in which laws.*-<3uba wero made.	’
Sensational Rise in General ' The biggest sensation in the list X‘'"ot0rs In ten sales it sold from 107% to-'* 'vas General Motors, extremely wide. The stock acte-' Fluctuations were ——---------------------------id as if the floating supply
above $20 <
igh on the movement.	*’
Industrial Alcohol made a high at 121%, up 5%. Woolworth gained 5% at 118.
Gaston, Williams & Wigmore's Earnings
Gaston, Williams A Wigmore was strong, selling to a new high at 35%. This stock is earning at the rate of $20 a share and paying dividends of $4. Only 20% of the business "Of Gaston, Williams & Wigmore, Inc., is carried in its own ships. It is understood that some Russian accounts were lost recently, but the company is making up this loss by extending its trade in China and Japan. Its largest returns come from commissions on commercial transactions.	•
Bush Terminal Stock Off 20 Points
Bush Terminal stock sold at 80, off 20 points from the last sale made on February 8, 1917. Announcement that the Government had taken over the Bush Terminal for its shipping facilities probably induced the selling.
Government’s Attitude Toward Prosecution of Trust Cases _ In some financial circles the action of the Government in abandoning prosecution of the trust cases was cited as the biggest factor favoring the purchase of stocks of Amar, ican corporations. In these quarters the prospect of peace receives secondary consideration.	.
Public Participation
Another small reaction occurred in the early afternoon. It was short lived, and stocks were gobbled up by anxious buyers. Commission houses were crowded, and everywhere there were reports of public participation. Traders remained on the bullish side. All the leading issues made high marks for the day, with Steel still leading. Steel sold at 94%, up 3%. Reports from Russia that the Russo-German peace meeting had broken up because Russia could not tolerate certain terms imposed by Germany, added to the enthusiasm, and the war share’ figured prominently. Bethlehem B showed a gain of 4% at 79%.	’	8	0	*
Studebaker’s War Orders
Studebaker sold at 53%, up 3%. A big .	, ,>>>-
crating in this stock. Studebaker’s $13,000,009 of war orders have helped the pool. The old automobile clientele in Detroit, Chicago, and Toledo is said to be back in the harness. American Locomotive gained 1%, while Baldwin gained 3. Cuba Cane Sugar sold up 2% to 3017 Leather stocks were very active. Continental Can gained 3 to 89.
Wall Street and the Railroads
Rails remained inactive. Only a few made gains for the day. Some light will prooably be thrown on the railroad situation in Congress it: the next few days. Some Wall Street interests look for the setting of a definite time hmit by Congress for Government operation of railroads. These interests believe that a period of at least two years should be determined on. They fear that the railroads wotild meet financial obstacles if Government operation ended suddenly with the signing of peace terms.
More Facts on Automobiles
.	n?arket values from the high prices
of 1915 and 1916 of nine listed and eleven unlisted motor stocks, as shown in the second article in the series on motor stocks published by Dow, Jones & Co., had reached the stupendous total of $352,643000 before the selling wave of motor stocks was stemnj/1. General Motors flue-tuatefi over about 100 points, jfjovrolet fluctuated over a range of 228 points, fitudebu/‘b‘162 points and Maxwell
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
laws. n'e gains