THE STOCK MARKET: BEARS RAID MARKET
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 29, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
THE
K MARKET
BEARS RAID MARKET
! Recent favorites under pressure through- , out the session with severe declines in Gen- ' eral Motors. Texas Co. and Mexican Petro- J leuin—Coal crisis the real market factor, although the Mexican situation comes in for a lot of discussion—Money at 9 at the close—I'. S. Steel common acts well during the reaction and considerable difficulty is experienced in keeping stock below 102.
Sales, 1.3SS.900 shares.
The market was hammered throughout the session, but no bad break in prices occurred until the last hour. During the final period, Texas Co. was forced down 161i points, Pierce-Arrow points. General Motors over 20 points, Baldwin over G points and U. S. Rubber 5 points, as compared with the close on Wednesday. A strong bear crowd had plenty of ammunition upon which to work. Despite all the discussion of trouble with Mexico, it is probable that the Street is more concerned over the coal situation, and the possibility of a continued shortage in fuel partially tying up many industries of the country.
Commission houses in general seem to be bearish on the outlook but the following from Hayden. Stone & Co. furnishes some excellent reasons for optimism on the outlook. This market letter says: “While such severe breaks as that through which the market has recently passed are bound to be witnessed from time to time, there are to our mind three rertsonfc.—any one of which would make it most improbable that—as yet—we have reached the ultimate crest of the hill, and had started in on the long down grade. First is the fact that, in spite of strenuous efforts since the war ended a year ago, production throughout the world has by no means caught up to consumption. There is everywhere still a marked shortage of goods and <>i most raw commodities. Second is the enormous amount ; of credit instruments of one kind and another issued dur-i ing the war that are still outstanding. Third is an inI fluence to which, perhaps, enough importance has not been
■	fully ascribed, and that is high taxes. These must be ' passed all the way down the line and so long as they continue at anything like the present normal rate will be a very potent factor in the continuance of high prices.”
Lower Prices at Opening
Disappointing over-the-holiday developments as applied to the coal situation as well as the new turn in I Mexican affairs naturally resulted in lower prices at I the opening. General Motors was off lfi points at "40 i and then added f> more points to the decline at 335. i Crucible Steel at 202’^ was off 7sc. Central Leather . was off a point at 93. while the decline in U. S. Rubber ! at 119 amounted to 2\ points.
I U. S. ,Steel was fairly firm at 103’4. which, bow-i over, represented a decline of ■%.. Southern Pacific, ex-| dividend, opened a: 94*-j. which was an advance of *i.
I	Big Operators on Short Side of Market
I The market was irregular throughout the first half hour and there seemed to be bear pressure on nearly i every part of the list. Republic got down to IOS’s and : then rallied a little over a point. After an early low at 335 General Motors rallied 10 points. The new stock on the Curb failed to get below 30, which is the equivalent of 301) for the present stock.
The big operators are reported to be working almost entirely on the short side of the market. They profess to see nothing but uncertainty in the outlook and believe , it will continue for some time. Their argument is that j uncertainty is ulwtivs conducive to liquidation of stocks 1 and they believe that by a continued hammering proceis combined with the news of the day much long stocks can be uncovered.
Commission Houses Bearish
Commission houses in the majority of instances ap-ipear to be looking for further liquidation which is shown in the character of the wires sent out before the opening yesterday. Block, Maloney & Co. confess bearishness on the • outlook and advise selbug of stocks and t.he same applies
■	to Clark, Childs & Co. A. A. Housman & Co. ar? inclined
■	to think the market will be governed almost entirely by professional influences.
i
i	Transcontinental Oil One of Few Firm Spots
:	fine of the few issues to retain a firm tone w.v Trans-
■	continental Oil. During the early trading this .'lock failed , to ge* below the low price of Wednesday and at one time
showed an advance of nearly 2 points from the low figure of that day. This was probably a direct result of the state.-ment of F. B. Harriot published by Dow, Jones & Co. in which he stated that the company's position today is stronger than at any time in its history and that development work is proceeding in a most satisfactory manner, he speaks most optimistically of the possibilities in connection with tho acquisition of 130.000 acres in tho northern Louisiana fields. Transcontinental has also added to its holdings in Texas and Oklahoma.
General Motors Debentures l'p on Financing Plan
General Motors debenture stock reflected the details of the financing plan which was not announced until after the close of the previous session of the market. This stock got above 94 as compared with a low during the last two weeks under SG. The holder of each share of the present debenture stock, as well as the preferred stock now outstanding, will receive the right to subscribe to two shares of a new 7% debenture stock at par. In making the payments for this new stock stockholders can either take care of their obligations entirely in cash or 50% in cash and 50% in the present preferred or debenture stock at par. This means, of course, that the present holder of ' either the preferred or debenture stock has the opportunity to make further investment on an 8% basis. President Durant confirms the forecast made in these columns some days ago in which he estimates business for next year at $800,000,000. After the financial plan is completed
and the new stock subscribed for General Motors will liave approximately $175,000,000 in its treasury.
Another Note to Go to Mexico
Following the announcement that the State Department will send another note to Mexico asking for the details of the charges against Consular Agent Jenkins, the market had a fair-sized rally. It was assumed by those covering stocks that the very fact that another note will be sent indicates protracted correspondence with as little chance of any decisive action by our Government as there has been in any previous episodes between this country and Mexico.
Baldwin Locomotive Declares 3*2% on Common
Baldwin Locomotive rallied about a point on the announcement of a 3 *4 % dividend and then lost all of this and a point more. While not definitely announced it was assumed by the Street that this represents a semi-annual disbursement, thus putting the stock on a 7% basis. Any dividend at all, however, came as a surprise and probably accounted for the comparative firmness of this stock while the rest of the industrial list was selling off on Wednesday.
V.	S. Steel
Prices were hammered again during the early afternoon. but resistance was met with in the majority of instances. Up to 1:45 every effort to get U. S. Steel common below 102 had proven unavailing. The bear crowd which is a strong one is of the opinion that if U. S. Steel can he put below par it would cause a flood of selling orders to conie into the rest of the industrial list. But the same excellent sort of buying continues in Steel that made itself felt during the break of two weeks ago.
Pierce-Arrow Susceptible to Attack
Pierce-Arrow seemed to be more <uscepti't>le to attack than any of the other tecent favorites probably due to the fact that the recent advance has been entirely the result of pool operations rather than the possibility of the company being taken over by cither General Motors or any other automobile combine. The stock opened down nearly 7 points yesterday and there was no rally excepting when some shorts covered their commitments. It is hard to understand how even the present price around 75 is warranted by earnings which are understood to bo not over $5 a share. Pierce-Arrow had a whole lot of trouble getting back from n war to a peace basis and the company stands little chance of being able to show any big production until well into next voa-.
New Lows During Late Trading
Low prices for the day were made during the last half hour. Pan-American Petroleum was hammered below 100; General Motors to 331 as compared with a recent high of	Bethlehem Steel to 90; Texas Co. tc
374, and United Retail Stores SOU. While U. S. Steel was driven down to 101 \ it quickly got back above 102. Rank and file of the traders are confessedly bearish and the snort account of the market is probably larger than at any time this Fall.
( For Ransre of Prices See Pace fit
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.