THE STOCK MARKET: VIOLENT REACTION Stocks tumble at the close Traders
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 8, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
VIOLENT REACTION
Sfjocks tumble at the close——Traders bearish on prospects of Goverment control of various commodities—XT. S. Rubber sells down from 1372 to 1181—Steel touches new low point on present move—Little support found when stocks react—Pool activities cease when weakness appears.
.	Sales. 1,750.000 shares.
.	-	'I
Stores opened, at 113%, up %, and Crucible Steel showed a gain of % at 137%. Bethlehem Steel B was off % . at 88%. Tobacco Products, which was 'unusually strong at the close on Wednesday, showed a gain of a full point at 108%. - •
- U. S. Steel was fractionally lower, opening at 106%, as compared with a dose cf 107%. Kelly-Springfield, ’ which sold as low as 124 on .Tuesday, opened at 131%, up 1%.
. After being irregular ‘for the most part of the day the general list turned weak late in the afternoon with leading issues being under particular pressure. This reaction came after stocks had given good account of themselves, the immediate reason being that traders sold stock rather heavilv when the market failed to sustain its rally.
Stocks got below the low prices of earlier in the week with Steel common selling down to par, compared with a low price of 103% on Tuesday. Other steel stocks followed this trend and the weakness was conveyed to practically all other classes of securities.	’ z
While the general character of selling was not believed good, the action of the tape' indicated that there was not a great amount of scale buying under the market. This was particularly true in the late trading, when prices faded very easily, with little signs of a comeback.
Early in the session there were signs of a resumption of pool activity in a number of issues, particularly Marine common, Sinclair Oil and Retail Stores. All these stocks showed good strength up to the time of the reaction when they followed the general course of the list.
Apparently there were still a number of weak holders in the market and when these sought to take advantage
Their market activities were no doubt due ' the enactment control of food
of the rally traders on the bear side sold stock, accelerating a decline. -------------—
to the belief that the President will seek of laws which will extend the -Government’s products to include other commodities.
A Firm Opening
The market was firm at the opening.
United Retail
- U. S. Rubber Leads	''
_ There was a wild market in U. S. Rubber during the first half hour. The stock opened at 134, up 2%, and then ran up to 137. "Its reaction was just as violent and on a few hundred shares stock got down to 131%. The buying during the last few days was based on the belief that, cash dividends would be resumed and in addition the direc-! tors would suggest a plan for a stock increase, the increase ' to be used in distributions in the form of extras at S-month 1 or -6-month intervals. If this plan were followed out it will; meet dividends in much the same form as are now being ■ contributed by 'General Eloctric and the Kelley-Springfield Tire Co. The Kelly concern has practically committed itself to a program for the next five years calling for distributions of 3% in stock each quarter. This of course does not prevent the company from increasing its cash rate during this interval. Cash dividends are now being paid at the rate of $1 quarterly.
Wilson Weak
Following the announcement of plans for anti-trust suits against the "Big Five” packers, Wilson & Co. broke to 83%, off 4%. Washington advices are to the effect that the Attorney-General states that the Department of Justice is satisfied that the packers,are operating in direct violation of the anti-trust laws.	'
T. & P. Well a Failure
After opening at 54% Texas & Pacific sold down to 52%. The reaction was due to the statement published by Dow, Jones & Co. showing that the well drilled on the company’s three-acre tract near Ranger has so far proven a failure and drilling operations have stopped. Possibilities of’large oil resources have been used as the big bull argument in the move in Texas & Pacific that started under 20. Pool operations have been largely responsible for the big advance in the stock.
Market Rallies
After an early reaction that carried U. S. Steel down ever a point. Tobacco Products 3 points. Central Leather 1%. and other stocks in proportion, the market rallied I under the leadership ox the motor shares and some of the oils.
The Packing Business	’
After touching 82, Wilson & Co. rallied 3 points. It would appear that politics were being played in the bringing of anti-trust action against the packers. The packing industry on a. straight meat business has been showing a profit of less than 2 cents on the dollar of gross up to recent weeks and the average now is only slightly over 2 cents. Last year Wilson & Co. earned $34.49 a share on the $20,000,000 of common stock as compared with $29 in 1917, $21 in 1916 and less, than $9 in 1915. Current earnings are running at a rate of over $40 for the common after taxes. The book value of the common has been brought up from $77 a share at the end of 1915 to $142 as of January 1 last. The company has a working capital cf $44,000,000. In view of these large earnings and the immense amount put back mto the property in the last four years it can easily be seen that the present dividend rate of 57$ is decidedly conservative.
American Tobacco Up
American Tobacco opened at 244, up 8%. The company has gone back to cash dividends at a 20% annual rate instead of. making its disbursement in scrip. Scrip dividends have been paid for the last 18 months. Inasmuch as the scrip has recently been selling around 180 there were some who argued that the resumption of cash dividends was bearish. On the other hand as long as scrip was paid it meant the issuance of an equal amount of stock next year for redemption purposes. Ibis scrip is redeemable either in cash or in new “B” common stock at par. 'rhe scrip when first issued sold under 110. American Tobacco will hardly earn 191S when $35 was shown for record. But better than $30 a for the year should run above
Atlantic, Gulf
As a result of Dow, Jones
as much this year as in the common stock, a' new share is expected. Gross $135,000,000.
Featured
& Co.’s article on the ex-
cellent position of the oil subsidiary of the Atlantic, Guff & West .Indies Steamship Lines, the stock sold up to 162 before 12:15, a gain of 7 points. Houses handling this stock say that the break from 172 to 145 was largely the result of a concerted bear attack and this statement was substantiated by the ease with which the stock came back yesterday. At the high price it was up 17 points from the week's low.
Midvale Off on Poor Report
Midvale Steel was weak, selling at 51%, off 1%. Tho decline was the result of the poor report for the June quarter which showed a surplus after charges of only $946,000, or the equivalent of 47 cents a share on the 2,000,000 shares of stock outstanding. This meant that surplus had to be dug into to the extent of $1,000,000 to pay the dividend. Earnings for this quarter arc at an annual rate of less than $2, while the company is paying $4 annually in dividends.
'	Merger Possibilities of Pipe Co.
U. S. Cast Iron Pipe was strong with an overnight gain of nearly 2 points. Theie. is persistent talk of a merger of this company with the Central .Foundry Co. The advance in U. S. Cast Iron Pipe has been Accomplished on operations by a financial group long prominent in the affairs of the American Hide & Leather Co.
General List Reacts
Around 1:30, stocks reached the lowest prices, for the day up to that time. When the market failed to. follow up the rally in the earlier trading floor^traders started selling but the decline was much more orderly than in the previous sessions of the week.
<	Two Features
Two features of the trading were Liggett & Myers and Fisher Body. The former at 249% showed an advance of 9% points over previous close. This is one of the important divisions of the former tobacco trust and it is enjoying prosperity similar to that of the other tobacco companies. Fisher Body touched 80, up 10%.
.	■ • r ■ ,	I ■	»	■	■
J. . ' . ..	■	Vif	■
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Marine Common Active
For a time. Marine common was the market leader, advancing above 60, and with transactions up to one o’clock second in size to those of U. S. Steel. Subsequently it reacted, about two points with the rest of the list.	. ,
Signs of Pool Activity . .	.
There were outward signs of pool activity during the advance early in the day, but the several issues affected later followed the general trend of the list downward. ’ Sinclair Oil was c.nc of these, it being reported in reliable sources that big interests are again acquiring the stock. In Marine common the same situation is said to prevail, based on the excellent earnings and business of the company. On the’ advance several weeks ago from below 50, a large block af Marine common was acquired and taken out of the market.
Stocks Break Badly
Stocks were the weakest at the close, with a general selling movement in progress. Steel common touched 1C0, at which level it was 3% points under the low price on the break Tuesday. U. S. Rubber, which earlier in the day featured the market by selling to 137%, touched 118%. The violence of the movements was indicated- by a 4-point break in Rubber on three consecutive sales. (Other leading issues were weak, Bethlehem B getting down, to 82%, off 6% from the day’s high; Crucible 127%, off 9% points; and Baldwin 100, off 9 points.
Late Closing ,
Stock Exchange ticker tape did not finish recording sales Thursday untjl 3:25%, which is within 3 minutes of record late closng, 8,;23%, made June 3 this year.