THE STOCK MARKET: A SHARP REACTION Entire industrial list hard hit ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 22, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET

A SHARP REACTION
Untire □ndustrlal list -bard, hit-—Crucible Steel down 21 points from last week’s high Decline -in -American -\Voolen -was- over nine points—Exchange situation shows improvement—Pan-American strong early but breaks wdth rest of list at close—-General Cigar at new high price. .
Sales. 1.490,000 shares.
The market was reactionary throughout the day. There were, a number of factors tending toward pessimism and these resulted in a considerable amount of real liquidation. The traders then proceeded to help thing along by selling short many of the issues that have had the biggest rise during the last month. . First one group and then another was hammered and it was not until late in the day that any real support was encountered. .	.
Reports from Youngstown stated that fully 20,000 of the 35,000 steel workers in that district who have voted declare almost unanimously in favor of a strike providing the steel and iron companies refuse recognition of their union as well as providing improved working conditions and a readjustment of the wage scale. Despite these reports the Street finds it hard to believe that the steel worker is really dissatisfied with the conditions under which he now labors.	‘
• Sir George Paish, the British economist, is decidedly pessimistic and the publication of his views came at a time when bad news was snapped up more quickly than anything of an optimistic nature. As far as the Mexican situation is concerned, however, toe intervention of toe United States, if it comes, must mean a clarifying of toe situation in that country. The uncertainty of what might happen to American and other interests in Mexico most any time ha3 been one of toe real depressing factors that the market has faced through all of the recent upward swing. No matter what can happen in Mexico with intervention it cannot well be any worse than what has happened over the last five years.
There was a rally in sterling exchange during the day but it failed to have any beneficial effect on the stock market. Ln his remarks Sir George Paish predicted $4 exchange in toe near future.
An Irregular Opening	.
The market had an irregular opening. U. S. Stee! was off % at 110% and Reading showed a decline of % at 90%. Southern Pacific was also off fractionally. Central Leather showed a decline of % at 11114.
There were a number of strong spots, however, including Atlantic, Gulf & West Indies at 174%, up 2%; Baldwin 11594. up %, and General Cigar 91%, up 1%. The 13tter is a new record .high.	-
Mexican Petroleum Strong During Early Trading
The market was inclined to sell off after early firmness but the reactions during toe first half hour were not large. Mexican Petroleum, in view of toe tension resulting over the robbing of toe American sailors, was actually strong in the early dealings and got up to 197%, up 2%. The stock later reacted to. 195, which was Friday’s closing price. Announcement from Washington of the indisposition of President Wilson may delay the settlement of this latest trouble for several days at least. Pan-American Petroleum got as high as 111, up 29b, but then reacted to dose to Friday's closing price.
General Cigar
General Cigar was one of toe strongest stocks in the list with sales as high as 91 %, up 2. Inasmuch as this immediately followed a 4-point move on Friday it attracted considerable attention. Interests in close touch with toe tobacco situation in this country rather expect that General Gigar will be taken into the new foreign combination controlled by the Whelan-Duke interests. The buying of this ■ stock has been of the very .best ever since it sold tn toe i 40’s. The buying recently has been most pronounced when toe rest of toe market was inclined to be weak.
Studebaker
Some of the automobile stocks were strong during < the early trading, and Studebaker got up to 115 9&, up ' 2*6. Stutz sold at 125%, up %, and a new record high, ■ All of toe manufacturers of passenger cars are now get- 1 ting into big production, having cleared away their war i manufacturing machinery. Studebaker has been distinctly the mystery stock of toe motor class. The short interest has been proportionately larger in this than ’in any other automobile stock since it was selling in the 50’s. As announced last week by Dow, Jones & Co., Studebaker earned as much in the first six months of 1919 as it earned all of last year. In view of the fact that a large outlay is now being made for the new plant in South Bend, the dividend may not be increased before next year; but current earnings are running at a rate of better than $20 a share on the common, or five tiLies toe dividend now being paid junior shareholders.
Some Early Selling
The whole market sold off rather sharply during the second half hour, the declines running all the way from 2 to 5 points. The selling was largely toe result of the uncertainties of the Mexican situation which prompted a considerable amount of liquidation by those who would rather be out of the market until it could be ascertained just what position the Administration would take. Added, to this liquidation was a lot of short selling by the traders. One operator who has made large profit recently in cotton was reported to have gone heavily short of the market yesterday morning.
Butte & Superior
Butte & Superior was a particularly weak spot, with sales as low as 26%, off 8. In cofiformity .with the decision in tho U. S. Supreme Court last month, Minerals Separation attorneys asked for and received a decree ordering an accounting covering Butte’s infringement of the oil flotation patent. This might drag along for another year.	,__
incorporation of the British-Mexican Petroleum Co. - This —an “itial paid, up capital of £2,000.000, mH market oil and gasoline in the Eastern Hemisphere. »	new “"W? include the building ?of
fineriL°L^lkef>S' Thf	also erect re-
Co T- handle crude oil for the Mexican Petroleum storfe Jf2hOrtai’t Bntash-:lntercsts have taken half the swcK or the new concern.
A Large Amount of Professional Selling '
The irregular tone continued up to noon and it was apparent that every effort was being made to anath " ®^ots‘ First one group of stocks and then the	but “ mai°rfty of cases when
the pressure was lifted they snapped back easily.
The Mexican Situation
‘ Intervention in Mexico if it comes cannot be con-hJX»etiCar,S^-r’ The uncertainties below the Rio Grande have been a big market factor insofar as they have kept important interests from buying into companies whose main or entire source of revenue is derived from Mexico. The most cautious have acknowledged that. something ^ae before there can 1X5 anr stabilization in tho price o. the securities of these companies. If this country decides to go in now it simply means a final clearing up of the trouble as it seems impossible to believe that in that event we would ever again allow Mexico to drift ba I?",10 the state she now occupies. Just what course would have to be adopted the trend of events would de-tcrmine.
.	Royal Dutch Strong
W.e toe selling was going on in Mexican Petroleum, *oyal Dutch was conspicuously strong and got as high a3 or within 2 points of the high of the year. Roval Dutch has large interests in Mexico through its ownership of the Mexican Eagle Co. In fact the company’s investment there is said to approximate $50,000,000. One story rather freely circulated in connection with- toe advance in Royal Dutch was that the Doheny interests were buying into it. This story seemed improbable to those in touch with Mr. Doheny’s extensive plans, for expansion oi the business of Mexican Petroleum and Pan-American Petroleum.
Chandler Motor Offered Down
Chandler Motor on small offerings sold down over 12 points to 246. The stock always has a rather wide market and the floating supply is probably never over 5,000 shares.
New Lows Around 1 O’clock
Ivew lows for toe day were made shortly ef+e— one o’clock. 'Persistent pressure on U. S. Steel finally carried it below 109. Other steels followed and the losses for the day ran from 2 to 4 points, in these issues. There were a few stocks that stood out sharply because of strength. General Cigar made a new record high 92 and Pan-American sold up to 1109s.
Sir George Paish Pessimistic
As toe market went lower toe Street studied________
carefully toe remarks of Sir George Paish, toe British I economist, who views the financial outlook with great pessimism. He says that British credit cannot recover until the gold export embargo is lifted and predicts $4 exchange soon. The Street could not view with optimism suggestion for taxes on capital and cancellation of British-American debt.	.
Central Leather
their above
more
his the
While Central Leather sold off with the rest of the it was noticeable that the stock had an eighth market the way down. In other words everything indicated
list all	(
good scale buying. Earnings of this company for the quarter ended June 30 showed a substantial gain over the first quarter of the year. Sole leather from the Argentine and South America which sold dt 33 cents a foot at the start of the year has advanced nearly 100^4. Tho ad-v^nce in fancy top leather during the last month amounts to over 30% while black bordered glazed side leather is up 125% in two months.
-	Another Reaction
Another selling wave hit the market during the last half hour and new lows for the day were recorded throughout the entire list.. American Woolen was particularly weak with a decline of 9 points. The reaction in General Motors amounted to IO points and U. S. Steel got down below 108, a decline of over 3 points. The oils, as a group, acted the best of any stocks in the industrial division.
Mexican Petroleum
Mexican Petroleum, which had been strong earlier in the day,, finally weakened under the pressure of short selling; and reacted about five points. Much . interest was manifasted in the cable from London announcing the
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.