THE STOCK MARKET: A BAD BREAK
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 5, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.
THE STOCK MARKET
A BAD BREAK
Many of the leading issues go below the lows of .Tune—Railroad labor troubles only one factor—American Woolen breaks nearly 15 points—United Retail Stores one of the few strong spots—Good buying reported in American Writing Paper preferred—Pools in the low price rails have their troubles—Some settle buying appears near close.
i
American Writing Paper
There is talk of important developments pending in American Writing Paper preferred. One important bank« ing house has been accumulating the stock for ten days. It is said that a prominent tobacco man is taking an interest in American Writing Paper preferred and that ho and his friends have been the recent big buyers in the stock.
Sales. 1-94.3,800 shares.
i The market had a severe break which carried prices in both the industrial and rail list in many instances below the lows of June. The selling started on ’	--- -
given labor troubles and was increased by the agitation to lower the cost of living prices all around for commodities.
There was no part of the list that was extreme declines at the opening were in shares, hu ~	'	...	.	.
showed that the industrial break was greater than in the other class of stocks. It was not until late in the day that any .-pal buying appeared of a good character and when this did appear it was of a scale character and was prominently, principally, in the steel stocks and leather issues.
I The market has given evidence for the last week of being in an overbought condition. Many of those with large profits acknowledged this but hoping against hope had put stop orders in the market so that if a break did occurii portion of their profits at least would be saved for them. The presence of these stops resulted in declines of a point between sales in the leading issues several times during the day. There wore no stocks that acted really well with the possible exception of the tobaccos under the leadership of United Retail Stores Corporation. This stock was well taken throughout the d.-iv on all recessions.
i
;	Weak at Opening
1
I of sellin
ccni end,
. u.
the publicityreports that meant lower
not hit. The _	the railroad
a final summing up of the day’s operations
:	U. S. Cast Iron Pipe
The American Hide & Leather crowd is reported again to be active in U. S. Cast Iron Pipe but it was unable to hold the stock up against the whole market. Within the last ten days the price of pipe has been advanced ?2 • a ton and there is talk of another advance that may amount to S3 a ton in the near future. In addition to I these favorable factors it is said that interests now active in the company's affairs have plans under consideration which may mean a merger with another company, the tame of which has not yet been divulged.
I	Another Attack on Prices	.
| Around 1:30 there was another attack on prices and this was the most violent of the day. American Woolen was off nearly 10 points from the previous close and the break in General Motors amounted to 8 points. U. S. Steel broke through 106. There was no market at all, or practically none, in some of the specialties. The tobacco shares continued to act the best but even here there was selling by those who still had profits and were obliged to take care of other commitments.
1
Some Scale Buying Appears
Leading commission houses reported, early in the afternoon, the appearance of some good scale buying, which they say had not made itself evident during the two earlier breaks of the day. This scale buying appeared in the steel shares and leather stocks. One large western grain operatoi, whe has been selling stocks for the last week, is s: buying side in U
tral Leather. This much of been for
id to have placed large: scale orders on the Steel. Crucible. Republic, and Ccn-man has had a large following. ar.d the recent selling during the ten-day period has people in the middle West.
Uneasiness over the railroad situation produced a flood ig orders at the opening. On a turnover of 4.50*3 Stool common opened at 10S% to 10S%. off 1 to Railroad stocks which have participated in the rc-riso were affected by the developments, over the week-Mlssouri Pacific opened at 33, off 1. Issues in which e ha- beer, comparatively little speculative activity in I recent sessions showed only fractional recessions. Penn-'sylvania at 43% was off % and Chesapeake & Ohio at 64 was off ’4. Equipment stocks were reactionary. Baldwin selling ut 1CP*•*. off l5i and American Car & Foundry at 114***, off %. Despite its sharp rise on Friday, United Retail Stores was firm, opening at 110%, off
United Retail Stores
strength in United Retail Stores as compared rest of the list was explained when the candy company sold above 16 on the the stock with the
■ expected shortly is not
It i
the exchange basis for United
The with the to the new This means a price around 92 for eff and inasmuch as the issue is on probably a 67- cash basis it i. with others of the tobacco group. 125 will be when further exchanges of stock are maac over of additional properties.
right* Curb.
right* to go ; telling out of line is good opinion that Retail Store* in the taking
Crucible Steel Breaks
Rallies Feeble
The heavy selling continued right up
Th*- rr.arkrt continued weak right, through the first half hour. Crucible Steel which opened at 13-1 quickly so’d down to	The reaction in Studebaker
amour.:*”4, to 3 points. Marino common 21*, Bethlehem Steel “B” 3. Central Leather 2%, and Mexican Petroleum 3%.
;	Tobacco Issues Act Best
! The tobacco issues held up during the flrst few minutes but they were later carried down with the rest of the list.
: United Retail Stores was off 4 points from the high of ; Friday. It is understood that the company will make some ‘ announcement within the next two weeks of its plans for ( the taking over of additional industrial properties. As ' far as anything official is concerned, the United Cigar • Stores Co. is the only concern so far taken into the Retail Stores Corporation. There have been certain details ' to clean up in connection with other properties and it is understood that in the case of two or three of them a formal announcement may bn expected any time. There was somo trading on Friday in United Retail Stores “rights” and at one time they were 10 bid. These represent the rights to a new candy company, with stores to be scattered throughout the country and to be operated by the United Retail Stores Corporation.
to the clo.-c. Endicott-Johnson which had held tip fairly well during the early part of the day sold down to lOd. a decline of over Id points. U. S. Rubber was off S pcinis. The late selling was increased by the feebleness of the rallies, and many of those who had held on to their stocks throughout the morning finally threw them overboard. At its low U. S-Steel was off over 10 points from the high of the year.
Financial Interests Guessing on Labor Results
'The financial community was naturally in a highly uncertain state of mind concerning the stand taken by the railroad unions and its effect upon the financial situation, but its first impression was that the whole thing looked bad. The brotherhoods make much of the idea of profitsharing. but Wai! Street has no illusions as to the real intent back of the Plumb plan. It has been recognized as a determined attempt to put guild socialism in practice in the	-	. -	-
. the
■	and i the
I
icape from another rate increase to cover present and impending wage scales, because on present operations there Is no profit to divide—and the brotherhoods would scarcely i consent to take their share of the deficit. While it is con-| ceded that the men arc feeling the constantly rising cost of living, they have been bolter taken care of than hundreds of thousands of other workers and are sure of their Jobs. Yet they propose to use their power to pnralyze Jhe country to obtain large immediate wage increases, i regardless of consequences and without waiting to sec
■	what the Federal and state governments can do to govern 'commodity prices. It was not surprising, therefore, that i industrial stocks went off with the rails.
i
transportation industry. In a word, it proposes that Government shall buy out the owners of the railroads turn them over to the employes, to be operated by latter for their exclusive profit and benefit.
The scheme does not offer the ‘lightest chance of es-
Stocks Have Small Rally
, There was a small rally around 11 o'clock under the ! leadership of United Retail Stores. After an early low ; of 107’4 this stock got up to 100%. The railroad shares did not rally as easily as the industrials which probably was only natural. The pools in some of the low priced rails are having their troubles, and the members of some of them see little chance to continue operations until the railroad labor situation lias been finally cleaned up.
Further Break Carried V. S. Steel Below lOfi
Another selling wave hit the market around noon and carried prices to new lows for the day. Bethlehem Steel "B” got below 89, a decline of over 5 points, and U. 3. Steel sold down close to 106, u reaction of nearly 4 points. The railroad stocks were all sold and much real liquidation occurred in this part of the list,
industrials was at least partially due to bear attack because * he weakness in the rails.
U.	.	X
•>. XUolor MOO	4
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
The selling in tha