THE STOCK MARKET: MONEY AT 6%
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 14, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
MONEY AT 6%
When call money rate suddenly drops from 16 % to 6 % a big short interest scrambles to covei^—Result is big upturn in prices carrying General Motors up 45 points from the previous close—Mexican Petroleum advances 29 points during the late trading— Little money wanted even early in the day and some big houses were actually reported as lenders of funds.
Sales, 2.220,200 shares.
Otis Steel Goes on Big Board
Otis Steel which made its first appearance on the big board sold around 36, being the price at which it was originally offered. Otis is a self-contained producer of iron and steel products owning most of its raw material supplies and operating its own coke ovens, blast furnaces and rolling mills at Cleveland. Its plants were affected by the strike but are rapidly resuming normal operations. Despite the strike some of the company’s departments were able to show a profit every month and with normal operations again in sight satisfactory earnings are expected for the entire property.	•
Divide Some of Losses With. Uncle Sam
The Federal Reserve Bank has accomplished its pur- j pose. There has been a thorough liquidation of stocks ■ with declines in the high priced issues running anywhere . from 25% to 40% from the highs of last month. The ( liquidation was not completed until the end of the sec-cond hour of yesterday’s stock market session. Then money suddenly dropped from 16% which had been the prevailing rate for the day up to that tune to 6%. Money loaned as high as 30% on Wednesday.	.
There has been a general cleaning out of marginal ' accounts as a result of the set-back in prices that started ten days ago. Therefore, the Street is naturally filled with disgruntled individuals who see no reason why the screws should have been applied in so forcible a manner as they were. The really big financial interests have been able to pick up many a bargain as a restilt of the throwing over of stocks, and the only ones who have suffered have been those to whom the loss of a few thousand dollars was the worst sort of a body blow. It will probaby be difficult to run prices up again in the industrial issues as they had been run up during the last two months despite the fact that it has always proven true that the Street quickly forgets.
In all the break in prices it was noticeable that many of the standard issues acted remarkably well. Particularly was this true of U. S. Steel common and Southern Pacific. There is reason now for believing that with the drastic liquidation in the high priced industrial issues there will be a turning toward the railroad stocks and Southern Pacific should prove an excellent leader. As far as U. S. Steel is concerned this former leader of the industrial list has had less advance over the last year than practically any stock in the entire list. The advance up to Tuesday of this week over the price prevailing at the time the armistice was signed was only 6 points.
Advances at Opening
Stocks showed a firmer tone at the opening and general advances were recorded. General Motors made the best recovery, opening at 295, up 15 points. Mexican Petroleum gained nine points to 195 and Steel a full point to 104%. Texas Co. was up six at 296, but Crucible Steel sold down, showing a loss of three points from Wednesday’s close.
Market Still Feverish in Early Trading
The market was still feverish during the early trading and a lot of stock was sold which represented the holdings of people who had been unable to take care of Wednesday night’s margin calls. General Motors was still erratic and after an opening of 295 gut down to 280, which was the low and last price of Wednesday’s session.
Stories About General Motors Numerous
Many stories arc going the rounds in connection with the break in General Motors. The most persistent is that a certain banking interest was at the head of a pool in the stock and that when the break came in the rest of the list this pool found itself totally unable to take care of the offerings. President Durant, of the General Motors Corporation, is still in the West, but is expected back the end of the week. Despite reports to the contrary, there is no tangible reason for believing that the financial plan involving an exchange of the present shares for new stock on the basis of 1 for 10 has been in any way changed. One thing is certain and that is that General Motors’ earnings in the last quarter of this year and for the first half of next year on business already booked will reach enormous proportions. General Motors earned in the first 6 months of 1919 over $48,000,000 before Federal taxes. Earnings in the second half should run in the neighborhood of $70,000,000 on the same basis, which would mean nearly $120,000,000 for the year.
Market Becomes More Orderly
The market became decidedly more orderly around 11 o’clock as a result of the general cleaning out of weakly margined accounts. Much interest attached to the large number cf cash sales in General Motors. One leading financial interest explains this by saying that probably soma house had a considerable amount of General Motors on hand and with tight money wanted to realize on this stock at once rather than to await payment today. This stock was then offered to a prospective buyer a point or two below the market with the proviso that payment be made at once.
Some people who did not sell their stocks a month ago because they knetf they would have to turn over two-thirds of the profit to the Government are now looking at the situation from the angle of a man with a big loss who can divide some of this loss with Uncle Sam. In fact there has probably been no inconsiderable amount of selling during the last three days to establish losses on income tax returns to be filed during the next few months.	•
Sugar Stocks Among Few Bright Spots
Sugar stocks were among the few bright spots during the slump of Wednesday and the early trading yesterday. Cuban-American Sugar closed on Wednesday at 370, up 14-%, while American Sugar at 134*% was off only %. Investment values are certain to count even in a market like that of the last few days and an additional reason for the strength in the sugar issues is that they are strongly held. The best sort of buying is said to have been going on in these stocks during the last week.
Market Opinion
A leading commission house sent out-the following wire on the outlook: “After the drastic declines which we have had in stocks the technical position is undoubtedly much improved. We may safely assume that beforo long the money market will show the results and by degrees we will work out of an unpleasant dilemma. But we must not suppose that bright sunshine will appear all at once and that we will be justified in expecting stocks to improve from now on, as if nothing had happened.
“The overtrading in stocks and commodities will be allowed to correct itself still further and banking interests are still advising caution. We will see rallies due to technical conditions, but these will bring further liquidation of weak accounts, thus tending to improve the underlying position.
“Much of the general news is reassuring, but this does not count "at present. Money rules.”
First Real Rally Around 1 O’clock
The market had its first real rally around one o’clock, and some sharp advances were recorded during the subsequent ,half hour. General Motors ran up from 2S0 to 311, an advance of 31 points. Mexican Petroleum showed a gain of nearly twenty points over its early low, Crucible Steel 10 points, *U. S. Rubber 5 points, KellySpringfield 6 points, and other stocks in proportion. Several leading brokerage houses said that so thorough had been the liquidation that there was no great demand for funds on the floor. In fact, a number of houses were reported to be actually loaning money.	’
Shorts Help Advance
The character of the advance in some of the high priced stocks indicated that some of the break three days had been the result of short selling, of these high priced issues it was extremely find any stock when covering was tried.
General Motors Up 45 Points
There was a wild scramble for stocks during the last half hour by an extensive short interest. General Motors shot up to 325, up 45 points from the previous close, ican Petroleum showed an advance of 29 points Wednesday’s last sale, and other high-priced stocks also eagerly bought. U. S. Steel got above 106.
call money at 6% brokers were once more willing to buy stocks for their customers.
of the last In several difficult to
Mex-over were With
(For Range of Prices See Page
STOCKS DEALT IN MAKE NEW RECORD
The number of stock issues (both common and preferred) traded in on tlie New York Stock Exchange Thursday was 345 issues, a new high record.
Liquidation Reduces Loans Materially money opened at 16% despite earlier rate- would be as low as 10%. The
rumors general through
Call that the opinion was that while the high rate might run yesterday there is certain to be easier money within two or three days. It needs no expert to make clear just how big the reduction in loans has been as a result of the steady liquidation covering the last eight market sessions and culminating with the break of Wednesday.__________________
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.