THE STOCK MARKET: A DULL SESSION Western wires are down and trading ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 19, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
analysis of the steel which he claims is better than anything else on the market, given by him in an address to a body of steel men some months ago, showed a vanadium content more than 50% greater than the vanadium content of vanadium high-speed steel. Tungsten, however, is eliminated and molybdenum is used in its stead. In the event of Professor Arnold’s steel displacing tur.g-t.n steel for high-speed tools vanadium consumption will be increased instead of decreased.
|
United Railways Investment Advances	j
Among the specialties United Railways Investment preferred was an early feature, advancing nearly 2 points to 24%. The strength of this stock during the last week or so reflects the improvement in conditions affecting several of its subsidiary companies. Only recently the Sierra & San Francisco Power Co., a subsidiary, leased its entire plant and transmission line to the Pacific Gas & Electric Co. on an extremely favorable basis. United Railroads of San Francisco, another subsidiary, is showing remarkable improvement in earning power this year compared with a year ago, and reorganization should shortly be completed which is expected to make the traction company a valuable asset to the parent concern.
Bethlehem Steel
Activity developed in the sugar and steel shares shortly after one o'clock. The movement in the first named issues was a direct result of the action of Senator Ransdell of, Louisiana, who prevented action on the bill to extend the existence of the Sugar Equalization Board by talking until the time arrived for discussion of other legislation.
Among the steels Bethlehem Steel B got above 94 while U. S. Steel common rallied a point and a half from the low of the morning. Charles M. Schwab's optimism on the steel outlook is justified by' the business beirg done and in prospect for the Bethlehem Steel Corporation. With earnings for the common around $20 a share for the current year, and prospects that 1920 will show an even greater return, there has been heavy inside accumulation of Bethlehem Steel common for several weeks past. An interest in close touch with the company says that by the close of next year Bethlehem Steel will have added to the value of the common in a period of six years a sum equal to between $175 and $200 a share on 1-hat issue.
Position of the Copper Shares
A demonstration in the copper shares shortly after noon was short-lived. Sales of the metal are running at high levels both for domestic and foreign account. It is estimated that if business continues to be booked at the present rate December sales will approximate 275.000,000 pounds, the best showing for any month since the armistice. While it is true that the surplus cash of the big producers is locked up in accumulated metal, and this will undoubtedly have considerable weight when it comes to determining the continuation of current dividends later on this month and in the first quarter of 1920, it should be remembered- that a sustained buying movement in the early part of next year would make big inroads on the surplus of crude metal and give the companies plenty of liquid assets. This particularly applies to American Smelting & Refining Co. It is obvious that the copper stocks have been well liquidated. Furthermore, there is a substantial short interest in this group. Everything considered, it would seem as if shares of the big companies had discounted to a great extent the unfavorable factors which the industry will have to contend with for some time to come.
- Low Prices During Last Half Hour
Prices worked somewhat lower during the last half hour, but the reactions in the majority of cases were not over a point. After getting above 94 Bethlehem Steel B sold down to 93. U. S. Steel common moved within a narrow .range of 103% to 101. Tobacco Products common held most of its early guin.
(For Range of Prices See Page G)
A DULL SESSION
Western wires are clown and trading is restricted as a result—Money loans on call as low as five per cent, late in the day— Short, selling in the steel shares promotes little real liquidation—Tobacco Products features stocks of this class and gets near high of the last two months—Little likelihood of any change in rediscount rate.
Sales. GS3.900 shares.
Western wires were down, which limited the trading. The bear crowd, seeing that the market had had a fair rally during the last three days, put out some short stock, but produced little real liquidation. There was little news to invite public participation in the market one way or the other. It is true that sterling exchange rates showed a further reaction, but this was offset by lower rates for call money. Renewals late in the day were made as low as 5%.
Much of the selling of stock late in Wednesday's session waB due to reports that the Federal Reserve Bank planned another advance in its rediscount rate. There was a meeting of the officials on Wednesday, and at it3 conclusion it was learned that no further advance in the rate is likely to occur this year-
Prices Up at Opening
Prices were up at the opening, with the exception of U. S. Steel common which was off H at 103%. On the other hand Republic Steel, which was sold rather freely hy the traders during the last hour on Wednesday, was up a point at 110%. Baldwin Locomotive was up % at 109Vj. In the tobacco group Tobacco Products was the leader running up to 91 during the early trading as compared with a close of 89%.
U. S. Rubber common continued to lead the stocks of this group with an overnight gain of % at 125%.
A.	T. Securities, which was traded in for the first time on the big board, opened 2.500 shares from 66% to 66%. The closing quotation on the Curb was 66%.
Sterling Affects Stock List
Further reaction in sterling exchange, which opened at 3.79%, off 12 cents from the high of Wednesday, caused some unsettlement of the stock list. Or, rather, it might better be said that it caused a cessation of the covering movement by the bear crowd which had taken in the two previous sessions. U. S. Steel during the first half hour got below 103, while Mexican Petroleum sold off-over three points from the opening. Tobacco Products, after touching 91, dipped to 89%. It was explained in this column on Wednesday that the quick run up in sterling to 3.91% was largely the result of short covering, and yesterday’s reaction, therefore, caused no particular surprise among people who have been particularly right on the exchange markets.
Big Steel Men Point the W’ay
Buying of steel shares recently has been on the expectation that 1920 will be one of the most prosperous years in the history of the industry. It is held by leading interests that there can be no permanent decline in the steel issues so long as production continues below consumption. Leading men of the industry, including Gary, Corey and Topping, are optimistic over the general industrial outlook.
Consolidated Textiles Corporation
Directors of the Consolidated Textiles Corporation are expected to meet in the near future and put the stock on a 3Ci annual dividend basis.
Bears Still Think They're Safe
Bears put out new short lines on all rallies during the early trading. Their argument was that the technical position of the market had been somewhat weakened by the extensive short covering that has been under i way since Monday. On the other hand, close market ob: servers say that while there has been a covering of shorts ! in such stocks as Mexican Petroleum, Pan-American, and some of the other oil issues, the short interest is still of extensive proportions. There has been no real attempt to cover short contracts in the steel issues, with the possible exception of Republic.
Auto Sales Earning $3.50 Annual Rate on Common
’ Auto Sales common stock advanced over 4 points to 20% which equaled the previous high of the year. The advance is based on a greatly increased business and is understood to foreshadow dividends on the junior issue some time next year. For the ten months ended October 31 gross sales amounted to $2,500,000, an increase of 32% over the same period last year, while net earnings gained 56% in the same period. It is expected that earnings for the full year 1919 will approximate 7%, or S3.50 a share, on the common after allowing dividends on the preferred at the rate of 6%.
Market Opinion
Clark, Childs & Co. are still inclined to be bullish on the outlook. In this connection they sent out the following wire yesterday: “The temper of the market has changed. It began the other day, and the big short account ' is now doing most of the worrying. As yet there is not much real bull news, but the bear arguments are worn threadbare. Declines recently recorded have generally , adequately reflected what may happen. The great hope of . the advocates of improvement is in the message of President Wilson dealing with the serious and involved rail-rond situation, which is expected on Monday. There are large stop orders to buy Steel not far from the current price. The short position is influenced by probability of a poor report for the quarter the lost Tuesday of January.”
Call money at the opening showed renewals being made at 6%.
Another British Discovery Already Known
Some timid holders of Vanadium were apparently alarmed by the London dispatches stating that John Oliver Arnold, professor of metallurgy at Sheffield University, had discovered a new high-speed tool steel excelling vanadium in quality. The stock opened at 56, a decline of ■ 3 points from the previous close. There 1b really nothing I new in this reported discovery of Professor Arnold. Ar
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.