THE STOCK MARKET: DECLINE CONTINUES Advance in call money to 15% for ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jun 17, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
DECLINE CONTINUES
Advance'in call money to 15% for industrials causes break affecting; whole list —17. S. Steel under continuous pressure— Announcement of Royal Dutch stock increase with dividend applying to new stock fails to rally issue—Mercantile Marine stockholders veto sale of British ships.
Sales. 1.519,100 shares.
rJ^’^hsh arffument for Mexican securities if the Lifited States took an active hand in Mexican affairs although the temporary effect might be disturbing Mexican Petroleum soW at i75> o(r 2 points, and Pan-American: Petro eum went as low as 8834, off 2%. Royal Dutch - .	. at 10,14 was 1% down. Important development-,
favorablo to stockholders are expected in this issue by the end of the month.	y
Tightness in money was the principal and practicallyy the only factor influencing prices in the day’s market. The deficit in reserves shown in the bank statement Saturday had its natural sequence in the sharp advance in the money rate to 12ff on industrial stocks and the highest rate'since December, 1912, and more or less general liquidation followed, prices declining all along the line a number of points. One large banking institution loaned several million dollars at Gr/c in the forenoon but this proved insufficient to meet the demand.	_
Steel stocks were under pressure all day. U. S. Steel showing weakness in the morning and later declining to 103%, for a net loss of 3%. Bethlehem "B” was among the weakest of the steel issues, a decline of over 4 points being recorded in that stock nt today’s low. Nova Scotia Steel which has had a sharp advance recently on the belief that the negotiations now being conducted with the Dominion Steel Corporation regarding ore reserves would benefit the company, declined over 10 points.
Reports of calling of Ioans were current early in the day, but no evidence of unusually heavy calls was forthcoming. In the past few days the banks have been doing considerable rediscounting with the Federal Reserve Bank, which should have a tendency to strengthen their reserves and relieve tlie stringency in the money situation.
Market Opens Easier
Market opened easier with most leading stocks fractionally off. U. S. Steel which, rallied sharply towards the close on Saturday opened at 105, off 1 % points. Central Leather was 99%, off U. S. Rubber 115, oft’ vii Bethlehem B 87, up %; American Steel Foundry 3S%, up %•
Crucible Dividend Expected
Crucible at 88% had a net loss of 1% points. It is confidently expected that directors of this company will put the 1regu,ar dividend basis at their meeting toda", although those best informed regarding tho company’s af--airs do not believe that the annual rate established wili be more than 5% while most likely it will be 4%. Crucible Steel has piled up immense assets in the past few years Temporarily, however, it is going through a period of depression and the management is inclined to pursue a conservative policy respecting distributions to stockholders until the upturn in steel is no longer an expectation but lact.	*
Railroads Inactive
Railroad stocks were inactive and slightly stronger. Southern Pacific at 105% being and Now York Central 79, up lil-j, up %.
Royal Dutch Capital Increase
Royal Dutch, N. Y., was subject to heavy’ pressure around noon hour notwithstanding the announcement of a proposed increase in capitalization from 230,000,000 to 400,000 000 guilders. Stockholders under the plan woul l have the right to subscribe to 1 share of new stock for rach 4 now held and the new stock is to share in all 19’9 dividends. It is calculated that the cash dividends alone for the year would enable present stockholders to subscribe for their proportion of the sleek offered out of money received in dividends with a substantia] balance over. The stock declined to 10634, off 2’4 points from the opening level and l-ji from Satuiday’s close.
Reactions General
Reactions were more or less general. U. S. Steel after getting some support around 105 made a further dip through the morning’s low selling down to 101 ’4 . Crucible sold at SS% and Southern Pacific at 104%.
Weakness Spreads	,
. U. S Rubber which held its own and showed a gam ™	™r.,aCtCd 'n 'v,T1i,:Uhy with the balance
•1
- ,	• wi,* liiv uaianc
Of the market, selling down to 114*4. Tobacco stocks whic Maa a ho —- --■»	---	k
jm above Saturday’s final United C:gar Stores was
had al-o rented early pressure did not continue ex-m irom the general market tendency. American Sumatra.de-eaned to 112’4, down 1%, and Tobacco Products to 10’ -down ].
a Factor	•
showing a deficit in reyears, together with re-
Rank Statement
Saturday’s bank statement, servo for the first time m five polled calling of brokers’ loans by banks, was responsible
for further selling of stock- on the opening this morning The market, however, gave evidence of having discounted thc=e factors to a largo extent, ancl offerings were fairly well absorbed at slight recessions.
Prices Rally Slightly
Immediately after the opening a somewhat firmer tone developed. Steel rallying ’1- point from its opening level. Central Leather, starting .d 99%’, down advanced % point above par.
Tobaccos Resist Pressure
The tobacco stocks continued to show resistance to selling pressure. Several sales of United Cigar Stores were recorded at 153, up point; and American Sumatra touched 11-1":, up "s Studebal-.c■■ en-ed oil’ slightly the early trading, going to 1)Sor 1 point down.
Internation Agricultural Wenk
in
International Agricultural preferred, which sold 89% Saturday before Dow, Jone, it Co. stated that nothing but the H’gulur dividend might be expected, made a further loss of r;f. selling at Sib.
at
Sloss-Sheffield Shows Firmness
Slos--Sheffiold held firmly around 63%. It cently announced exclusively by Dow, Jone= & the settlement of the company’s contract ...... L.v- u,Hti-nLT7°Z-’’Ui!d!n£r b-v--nroduct coke ovens had autoriaticallv added 8.0 a share to earning? for this year. Morcove, Slo= -Sheffield had been making fair profits so far in 1919 it had been able to maintain a fair rate of oncrarions on prc-anmstice business at comparative]-,, high pd«s Finally reports from iron centers indicate that there h-’. .icon a aecided revival in buying of.pig and that some manufacturers have already put up prices about ?3 a ton .^togerher the outlook for Sloss a= regards earnings U 3\	•V*ai: and as ftccl trado cxPCTt.s are convinced
t.iat there will be gieat activity in steel and iron in 19”'l 1. is expected that Sloss will continue making -ood	'
to stockholders for an indefinite period.	‘‘
Rich Money Causes Br-ak
Adv.tnc* in call money to 10^ On mixed coll-tern’ and , . or industrials, both <or new Ioans and renewals’ ui.51o. mvM ay anotner sharp reaction which senr ’he marko: < own to new low levels. After the break prices steacLed and there were some slight rallies.	"
Steel Stocks Unsupported
The steel stocks were without active support and U O. St, e'. for some time kept steadily selling around its low
was to-
Co. ih.'ti
■t with the ’Govem-
Good Support for Ohio Gas
Ohio C.as was well sustained around 55. This stock gave every evidence of accumulation and it would appear that the poo! which had been operating in it is still active. Assets behind the stock are valued at S92 a share, according to private reports made for bankers interested, and there is talk ef considerably higher prices for the issue.
Iiutterick at New High
Rulterick sold up to 37’4, a new high record on the movement. Interests conversant, with the company’s affairs and its good outlook are behoved to be reopoilsiblc fo’. the buying. It is understood that interests affiliated with a large trust company bought control of the property at private sale and that the share., wi!1 be placed on a $-1 annual dividend basis bcfoie autumn.
of 103%. or 2r% points below Saturday’s’final. made a 'ow of ST1,;, later regaining a frm- r its loss, and Bethlehem “B”, -with a low of like manner.
Crucible
of
in
Heavy Declines	..
The sharpest break was shown in American Ice which dec!.tied JO'i points to 54; American International Corporation. off 7% points at 95%; and Neva Scotia Steel off 7 pomts at 76. Continental Can sold at 70%, a net loss of 5% points.
Marine Deal Vetoed
Hally Short Lived
The rally was short lived and selling pressure again developed toward the end of the tirot hour, forcing practically the entire list to lower 1cm-I.-. The dime did not seem to be directed against any particular class of stock.
Studebaker Goes Down
Of the motor group Studebaker was the weakest declining to a low of !lli%, a net lo.-s of 3 points. There was a heavy short interest m Studebaker when it was .-oiling around 120, but the probabilities are that many of the shorts have taken advantage of the break to cover. General Motors at 205’A was tl'h points under .Saturday's final and under the low of that day.
Bethlehem “B” Soft
Market
ac’-oes the Mexican bor-Moxiean issues, the debeing attributable mote
The weakness in Ame-icar. International was probably due in part to selling by some who had bought tho stock in expectation that Mercantile Marine would conclude the sale of its Briti.-li ships, and that American International would receive par and accumulated dividends on all its holdings of the preferred. Morine stockholders vetoed the .-ale at their meeting this morning. Its confirmation. however, was opposed bv Ameiican International directors, who beliexe it lo be for the best interests of both companies that the ships be retained by the Marine company.
Leather Trade Boonrng	*
U. S. Rubber declined to 112%, off 3',4 points, but quickly rebounded to Il-l-li. Central Leather, after declining to 96, rallied to 97“s. The leather trade is now experiencing a boom as a insult of the onall kill of cattla in the West, and prices for tome grades are 60%' or moro above what they were last December.
New Lows at Close
After a fractional rally stocks again declined towards the close, a number of i.-s'-ies selling at new lows for tho movement. Among the.-e were 1.’. S. Steel at 103%, General Motors at 203, Sinclair Oil at 5-1%, Central Leath”!’ 95, Bethlehem "B’’ 82% and Goodrich 73. A large block of American Sugar came out at 126%, off 6% points for tlie day.
Bethlchem “D” was the weakest of the steel stocks, selling down to	oft’ 3’4. U. S. Steel broke through
105, selling *4 point under that lend. Republic at 86’L-was only ’A under the week-end closing price.
Mexico and the
Sending of American tioops der had no particular effect on clines in these stocks apparently
to the general weakness than to the news concerning them. Secretary Baker’s statement that thHo was no possibility of a misunderstanding between tho Mexican Republic and this country -with regard to protection of life on the Amer-' ican side and his intimation that the American forces would only be across the border for a short period to dispel bandit forces was reassuring. There arc in fact many observers who believe that it would eventually be ,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
(For Bunge of Prices See Page 9)
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.