THE STOCK MARKET: A BAD BREAK At low price of session General Motors Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 13, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	_	,
THE STOCK MARKET
A BAD BREAK	:
*	.. ■	i
At low price of session General Motors I shows decline of nearly 10O points in two ' days—Mexican Petroleum off over 60 points from recent high—Money loans as high as 30 7o which tells the story—Stocks thrown J overboard in great volume “at the market” . —Brokers have great difficulty in securing ; funds even at the high level prevailing throughout the day—Tape 30 minutes behind transactions several times during the day.
Sales, 2,503,700 shares.
Stocks were thrown overboard irrespective of price. The market opened off in the morning, went into new low ground about noon, had a short rally, and then, during the last hour, became almost demoralized. The motor stocks, equipments and oils were the weakest, and at the extreme low. General Motors was off 6814 points on the day. In other "words, the stock scored a decline of nearly 100 points in two days. High money rates were of course the dominating market factor. At one time it was said it was almost impossible to borrow money at any price. Money loaned as high as . 30% during the afternoon. Much attention "was paid to the article by Dow, Jones & Co. discussing whether or not the Federal Reserve Bank is properly functioning.
Trading established a new record volume for any session this year amounting to over two and and a half million shares. In fact so heavy was the selling during the last hour that the closing transaction of the day did not appear on the tape until 3:41. or in other words 41 minutes after the Exchange had closed. This established a new record. The former record was on June 3, of this year, when the final transaction was not recorded until 3:2814. Transactions during the last hour alone amounted to 812,000 shares.
General Decline at Opening
The market was somewhat irregular at the opening although prices in general showed a decline from Tuesday's close. General Motors made a new low on the decline at 345%i off 3. Republic Steel was off % at 112%, while Sinclair Consolidated with opening sales .from 53 to 5311 was off % to %. The decline in Crucible at 221 amounted to 4 points.
U. S. Steel common was firm and at 105% was up 14. On the other hand Bethlehem Steel again got below par, the opening sale being at 9914, off 19s. Central Leather was unchanged at 100.
Considerable Liquidation
The market was still in a highly nervous state and in a majority of instances new lows on the present decline were made before the end of the first half hour. General Motors at 342 was off 614 points from the close and 6414 points from "the record high. Mexican Petroleum 31so made a*new low at 21514, off 3. Atlantic, Gulf & West Indies was comparatively firm, holding around 170.
Leading commission houses acknowledge that there was considerable liquidation on wire accounts and most of these were “at the market.” But while stocks were stiil going off there was nothing suggesting a panic in the character of the decline and an eighth to a quarter market existed at all times for the leading steel and equipment issues.
Higher Margins
The market continued to sell off into the second hour with particular pressure, as on Tuesday, on the high priced stocks. General Motors suffered another decline to 323, off 2514 points from the previous close. Mexican Pe-
troleum got down to 21014 and Pan-AmeAhn to 113. Everything indicated general liquidation on all sides and brokers were demanding even higher margins than recently because of the very action of the high priced stocks which had broken wide open.
U.	S. Steel Benefited Little by Bull Market
In the lower priced issues, particularly in the steel stocks, the best sort of buying appeared. It is extremely difficult in the early trading to keep U. S. Steel below 105 and the same applied to Southern Pacific at 107. Comparison of Dow, Jones & Co. this morning on the'prices at the opening on Tuesday compared with the prices a year ago showed conclusively that U. S. Steel had benefited less by the bull market of the current year than any other industrial stock. People cannot lose sight of averages and with the immense equities that have been put back into U. S. Steel since the start of the war they cannot see how it can hold long around the current level.
Market Opinion
Clark, Childs & Co. in their wire commented on,the money outlook as follows: “In some of the best banking circles the opinion was expressed Tuesday night that lower rates for money might be expected soon, though perhaps not Wednesday, and that tho credit situation has been relieved somewhat by the liquidation. This does not by any means indicate any violent recovery >n the market, for the money ' market will continue to worry Wall Street until it hay been determined to what extent the stock market will have to forego its claims for credit in order to provide funds for international trade. Rates are likely to continue high, but possibly there will be no radical apportionment of credit.’’
American Smelting Forced Up by .Shorts
American Smelting furnished an excellent example of what can happen when a short interest becomes too large. While the rest of the market was breaking badly American Smelting shot up to 72%, an advance of nearly 5 points from Tuesday’s close. There is no change in the Smelting situation but traders fully aware of this have been selling it consistently against long stock and now find themselves in a position of being bad losers on both their long stock and short stock. Those close to the American Smelting management have no expectation that the annual report for the full year will show the dividend earned, but at the . same time the disbursement can be continued indefinitely with the present large surplus if the directors deem the outlook satisfactory enough.
Prices Break Wide Open
Prices broke wide open, around 1:30 and General Motors got below 300. No part of the list was spared. Even Crucible Steel, which had held up fairly well during the early trading, go<t down to 212%. Brokers reported that it was almost impossible to borrow money at any price and as a result stocks were thrown overboard without any respect for the price they could bring. The rails held .up fairly well, but this was only natural as they had not shared in the advance that the industrials had during the current year.
Weak at Close
The market rallied but little in the.late trading. There was, of course, some short covering, but not enough to materially affect prices. Money loaned as high as 30% ’ and that was the telling of the story. Mexican Petroleum was a particularly weak spot during the last few minutes ' with sales down to- 186. This was a decline of 71 points : from the record high made during the last month.
■ (For Range of Prices See Page 101
STOCK TICKER TAPE 41 MINUTES LATE .
•	The Stock Exchange ticker tape did not record tho i final sale of securities Wednesday until 3:41, establishing t a new record. Previously this year the tape on June 3
•	was 28% minutes late and on August 7 25% minutes late.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.