THE STOCK MARKET: SHARP BREAK
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Feb 4, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.
THE STOCK MARKET
SHARP BREAK
Rumor of further increase in rediscount rate brings about big decline in general market—Stocks like General Motors, Crucible Steel, Worthington Pump, International Paper and Mexican Petroleum drop from four to twelve points—Selling pressure continues until close.
of a half point from the last sale on Monday. Railroad issues gave ground with the general list despite the conviction prevailing in responsible financial circles that the conferees have reached a satisfactory agreement on the return of the carrier companies to private operation. Southern Pacific broke through 100 and Pennsylvania got down to 41%.
Sales, l,OSS,ipO shares.
Conducted under professional auspices, the market favored the side of lower prices because this was the line of least resistance with sterling exchange breaking to new low levels and speculative interests discussing the possibility of another increase in the rediscount rate, this time to' 7%.
In the face of an overnight drop of 4 cents in the rate on London, prices started in practically where they closed on Mbnday, and to all appearances the share list was destined to continue its remarkable display of apathy to the demoralization in foreign exchanges. But in the early trading the word was passed that the Federal Reserve Board planned further corrective measures, and the floor crowd was quick to seize upon a pretext that promised to carry the market out of the narrow range in which its recent movements have been confined.
Pressure was first applied to some of the newer flotations and the professionals followed up their success in this direction by hammering tile whole list. Railroad stocks gave ground with the rest of the market because their technical position hud been weakened by recent speculative buying, based on the hope of an early agreement on the measure pending in Congress regarding the status of the carrier companies under private operation.
But it was' in the high-priced industrials and other issues of the more speculative type that the greatest weakness was displayed. Stocks like General Motors, Crucible Steel, American Woolen, "Worthington Pump, International Taper and Republic Iron & Steel broke from four to twelve points nnd there were corresponding recessions in other active issues. U. S. Cast Iron Pipe preferred experienced a spectacular drop, but the weakness in this stock was attributable to unfavorable developments with regard to the company’s earnings rather than to the sagging tendency of the market as a whole.
The selling movement gathered momentum as the session wore on and the lowest prices for the day were seen in the final hour. At this time the market began to present an oversold condition, but the bearish contingent refused to switch its position and the attempts to bring about a rally were only half-hearted and were not well sustained.
New Low for Sterling
Crucible Operating Near Capacity t	■
Crucible Steel at 217 in the early morning trading still retained about one-half of the big advance the stock registered a few days ago following the announcement of plans to increase the common for stock dividend purposes. Insiders are •understood to have been taking stock above 200, demonstrating their faith in the successful outcome of their program. Crucible’s business has been running close to capacity for a considerable time and the company is confronted by a heavy demand
for its products.
America Firm
Vanadium Corporation of
Vanadium was firm at 51%.
the steel industry is reflected in the increased demand for steel alleys. The fact that earnings of the Vanadium Corporation of America jumped from less than $100,000 in October to $350,000 in January also showed the increased demand for high-grade steel from the automobile companies. Vanadium has on hand about $3,000,000 cash.
U. S. Cast Iron Pipe Preferred Breaks
The great activity of
Prices still showed a sagging tendency around noon. U. S. Cast Iron Pipe preferred suffered an ugly break, selling down to 43, against the previous close of 51%. Steel common held stubbornly at 104, but most of the speculative leaders moved toward lower figures. U. S. Rubber yielded 2 points to 3 27; United Retail Stores 1% to 84. and A. T. Securities 2% to 64. American Woolen at 14S%, Baldwin at 114%, and Republic Iron & Steel at 111 were at new lows on the current movement.
Equipment Companies Face Big Business
The whole world is badly in need of equipment. That is one of the reasons why stocks like Baldwin Locomotive, American Locomotive and American Car & Foundry have lately given a good account of themselves marketwise. According to William H. Woodin, president of American Car & Foundry Co., the railroads of this country will need something like S49.500 cars in the next three years: the roads will begin to renew their rolling stock once they are returned to private ownership; and unless measures to increase the efficiency of the railroads are taken there will bo a serious interference with businss. Director General Hines has also emphasized the shortage of equipment.
Sterling broke 4' cents overnight, getting down to n new low at 3.39, but the price movement on the Stock Exchange continued phlegmatic. Trading started in a desultory fashion and changes from Monday’s finals were without significance. Steel common began the day where it left off in the preceding session and fluctuations in the other leading issues were fractional. Studebaker was off % nt 303%: Baldwin was up % at 117%. and New Haven up % at 27%. Marine preferred lost % to 95%, while Central Leather was unchanged at 91’i.
Bears Launch Drive
the apprehension sterling exchange Endicott
Professionals took advantage of felt over the further demoralization in to launch a sharp drive in the first half hour. Johnson was found especially vulnerable, breaking four
points to 125’-j. General Motors was depressed to 303, off 2%: Mexican Petroleum to 192, oif 2%: Pan-American Petroleum to 91, off 1%; American Woolen to 150, otf 2; Crucible Steel to 217, off 2% and Chandler Motors to 137%, off %. United States Cast Iron Pipe preferred receded sharply, selling down to 46%, otf 4%.
Foreign Needs Not Depended Upon
However, it is a question whether the car builders of America could turn out more than 600,000 cars in three years, although their theoretical capacity is S50.000. This brings up the question of how the equipment companies will handle export business efficiently, assuming that credit extensions are effected, and that the domestic roads order in excess of 200.000 cars annually. Everything considered, plenty of business awaits the equipment companies here, without considering foreign orders, and it is believed that the realization of the prosperity ahead of American companies is impelling accumulation of the equipment stocks.
Acute Weakness in Early Afternoon
Stocks -were freely offered in the early afternoon and prices declined to new low levels on the day. Steel common sold al 103%, off 1%; "Worthington Pump at S9%, off 3%: General Motors at 296%, off 9; Crucible Steel at 213%. ofT 6%; American Woolen at 147. off 5: Republic Iron & Steel 109%, off 4 and international Paper at 79, off 3%.
I’. S. Rubber's Earnings
U. S. Rubber sold at 123%. off 3%. Rubber sells ex-dividend 12 %% on Friday. The annual report of L'. S. Rubber, which will be issued in the near future, is expected to show net earnings of about $20,000,000 for the twelve months ended December 31. 1919, after al! charges, including Federal taxes and preferred dividends. This would be equal to approximately $28 a share on $72.000,000 common stock outstanding. In the previous year net earnings after charges and taxes were $11,090,540, or $30.SO a share on $36,000,000 common stock then outstanding. Work is progressing rapidly on the additions to the Morgan Wright plant, the company’s Detroit subsidiary -where $1,000,000 is being expended on extensions and improvements which will double present capacity. An increased production schedule is being put into effect at tho Providence plant, where solid tiros ore being turned out and at Hartford, the present factory, is being replaced by a larger and more modern plant.
Lowest Prices nt Close
Stocks were urgently pressed for sale right up to tile close of the day and the final dealings saw the lowest levels of the session established. Chandler Motors sold down -to 132, off S% ; General Motors to 292, off 13 Mexican Petroleum to 18S%, off 6%; Worthington Pump to 85%, off 7%; Crucible Steel to 210, off 9%, and Steel common to 102%, off 2%.
( Por Ttjiujrc of 1’rices See J’lipe 7)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Philadelphia Co. May Increase Dividend
Philadelphia Co. common stock, selling at 39%. within 1 % points of the recent high when the fact that it was ex-dividend last week is taken into account. The belief that the directors, when they meet next April, will increase the common dividend from 6% to S%. is responsible for the action of the stock in the face of poor markets recently. From the viewpoint of earnings, Philadelphia Co. could pay 8% without any trouble. Earnings for last year will be between 13% and 16'% on the stock, compared with 10% for 1918.
Middle States Oil Hits New Low
.... .
Selling pressure continued in special issues out the first hour. Middle States Oil receded selling below the lowest break which carried this Baldwin Locomotive sold the preceding close and of
Iron & Steel to 1121 of a lnrge volume of offerings, remaining within a range
was
common
through-to 37 Vi, January
point touched in the
stock down from a high of 66. at 116%. oil’ a full point from General Motors touched a low 199, Marine preferred yielded to 94% and Republic Steel common held well in the face