THE STOCK MARKET: SHARP RALLY
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 15, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
SHARP RALLY
Entire list moves upward late in day under short covering—Mexican Petroleum leads upturn with advance of over seven points—TT. S. Steel common recovers to 80 —Dividend-Spaying rails act hotter and Southern Pacific recovers four points of recent loss.
Salos. 1,342,000 shares.
While several issues made new lows for the year during tho first hour, the list in general gave a much better account of itself. In fact, there was some heavy short covering in the afternoon, which was particularly pronounced in some of the dividend paying rails which had had so much to do with unsettling the market during the last week. Announcement by Dow, Jones A Co. that the affairs of Allan A. Ryan with the bankers are about to bo adjusted satisfactorily, was one of the constructive factors making for better prices.
An Irregular Opening
Opinion among the more level headed observers at the start of trading was unanimous in expecting a technical rally. Many important houses professed to see signs of an oversold condition and predicted recoveries running from ten to twenty points when the present flood of necessitous liquidation had subsided. Selling out of impaired marginal accounts gave the market a heavy tone at the opening, but initial weakness was generally expected in view of the extensive character of the previous session’s declines. Republic Iron A Steel broke to a new low at 60, off %; Virginia 'Carolina Chemical to 29%, off %. Steel common opened unchanged at 78% and immediately sold at 78%. Chandler started in at 73, off %; American Beet Sugar at 49%, off %; Studebaker at 40%, off % and Reading at 80%, off %. Mexican Petroleum ran counter to the general trend, gaining 1% on the first sale at 161%.
2 full points from Monday’s low and U. S. Steel common got above 79.
Inside Buying of Sinclair on Down Swing
Sinclair Consolidated will sell ex-stock dividend of 27o on the 31st of the current month. The stock is selling around $24. Net earnings after taxes for tho current year will be equal to $7 or $8 a share on the stock. All the money earned this year has been added to tho value of the property. Inside Interests have been buying thousands of shares of Sinclair, but have failed to stem the downward trend.
Another Bear Factor Eliminated
Supreme Court decision that David Damar must serve the rest of his term in Atlanta prison on charges of conspiring to prevent the transportation of munitions of war to the Allies removes another bear factor from the market. According to current gossip, Lamar has been one of the leaders in the pounding of stocks and is credited with haring made $2X»0,000 in the break of the last few weeks.
Big Operator Heavily Short
' Another well known operator is credited with having been short 400,000 shares of stock at the cloke on Monday. He has made an enormous fortune this year in the break in prices and is said to have pyramided his winnings on the belief there will be one final break before the upswing arrives. Whether or not this operator will be allowed to got away with more profits or will have some of his profits already secured taken away from him is an interesting market question right now.
Short Interest May Not Cover This Year .
Big boar operators in the stock market are figuring that they must remain short over Jan. 1. If they took advantage of present low prices to gather in their millions they would have to pay over three-quarters of it in taxes to the Government. They can afford to cover at higher prices in January and have their profits to play with another year.
California Petroleuni Advances
Market Recovers
After a brief period of heaviness at tho opening, the general list developed a stronger tone and recoveries of from one to three points were scored throughout the market Steel common led the rally, advancing to 79, a net gain of %♦ Short covering furnished the principal impetus behind the market’s changed front But, In addition, many traders swung to the long side on tho theory that temporarily the line of least resistance favored the bull position. Brokerage loans have been reduced to slightly above $700,000,000, an unusually small total. One house, which was borrowing $3,000,000 on Monday, had in its boxes $25,000,000 of marketable securities, which could have been utilized for Joans if necessary.
Mexican Petroleum Leads Upturn
Doheny stocks were the strongest spots of the first half hour’s trading. Mexican Petroleum ran up to 163%, up 3% and Pan American to 77%, up 19*. “Pan American Petroleum now owns about 75*4 of the stock of Mexican Petroleum, which controls the largest acreage of oilbearing territory of any oil company in the world,” Chandler Brothers & Co. say. “Mexican Petroleum is now shipping at the rate of 36,000,000 barrels of fuel oil annually and is obtaining high prices because of the world shortage of this commodity. Mexican Petroleum is producing at the rate of 160.000,000 gallons of gasoline annually, of which the Standard Oil Co. of New York has contracted to buy 150,000,000 gallons during 1921. Mexi-. can Petroleum’s oil reserves, even at the present rate of today, production, will last at least 50 years, in the opinion of **	”*
experts who have studied the question. *We have literally not yet scratched the surface of our properties,’ says Herbert G. Wylie, general manager of the Company. As an illustration of how the earnings of the company are expanding, we understand that the 150.000,000 gallon gasoline contract will increase the net earnings of Mexican Petroleum in 1921 by from $7,000,000 to $9,000,000.”
Strength in California Petroleum common stock, which sold up 4% points over Monday’s close, is a reflection of tho possibility of dividends being started on that issue. One of the hindrances to this will undoubtedly be removed this year by the purchase of the company’s preferred stock in sufficient amount to make up the sinking fund requirements. At the beginning of 1920 there was $449,400 of preferred stock to be purchased for sinking fund. The back dividends on the preferred stock were paid up by disbursements last year. The company is earning at the rate of $10 a share on the common and has a production of about 12,500 barrels daily. By the turn of the year the company expects to be paid the money due on oil impounded by the Government through litigation which has since been decided in favor of company, receive in
After expenses and royalties the company tho neighborhood of $1,000,000.
Sears-Roebuck Rallies Sharply
in the afternoon, Sears-Roebuck common
Firm Tone Continues
The market continued to exhibit a firm tone as it went into the second hour although the high prices of the first hour were shaded somewhat Southern Pacific recovered
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
the will
Early
up to 95%, against a low during the first hour of 91%. There was heavy selling of this stock at the previous session, on the official announcement that December sales were running far behind those of December. 1919. But the officials of the company believe the turn for the better is not far off.
ran
Expect Regnlar Vanadium Disbursement
After its early low, under 36, Vanadium rallied about two points. Directors meet for dividend action ’	. The opinion still prevails in responsible quar-
ters that the regular disbursement of 1% will be ordered. There has been no dislodgment of the really important holdings of Vanadium in all the recent break.
Sharp Rally Near Close
New highs for the day were made during the last half hour, when short covering became general. Mexican Petroleum got above 167, an advance of over seven points on the day, while the recovery in Baldwin above 89 amounted to nearly 4 point#. Southern Pacific ran up to 96%, against a low on Monday at 94)4. The one exception was Texas Pacific Coal & Oil, which was firm when the rest of the list was declining, and when the others showed an inclination to turn upward this stock eold off. It got as low as 36, a net decline of 2 points.
(For Range of Prices See Page 9)
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.