THE STOCK MARKET: WHOLE LIST ADVANCES
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 9, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
whole list Advances
Two favorable decisions by U. S. Supreme Court result in a wild scramble to buy stocks--Confusion results front earlier er-
nmroiiH report on slock dividend case and traders liaw a bsul half hour----Crucible
jumps 37 points while the advance in General 31otors amounts to over 40 points.
Sales. 1.750.400 shares.
! As the result of two important decisions by the U. S. ' Supreme Court, both of a favorable character, which had been eagerly awaited for many months, trading was the heaviest of any day in nearly four months. The first case, and the inorc important one, sustained the lower court on the non-taxability of stock dividends. The second, affecting the railroads, compels the Interstate Commerce Commission in fixing valuations of the various, lines of the country to accept present value of right of ways and terminals instead of the original cost. The effect of this decision is to increase the Commission’s valuation of the roads with the consequent probable fixing of higher rates.
One reason for the heavy trading was the confusion that attended the handing down of the stock dividend decision. The first news dispatches told of an adverse decision and before this could be corrected large Mocks of stocks were thrown overboard. Uppn the correction. this stock was bought back and in many cases a large amount of additional stock. Issues like Crucible Steel, Baldwin, U. S. Rubber. Kelly-Springfield. American Woolen and others in which capital readjustments have been made or arc talked of, were the most buoyant and the shorts had all sorts of trouble covering their commitments. The move in General Motors could hardly be attributed to the decision as the stock had had a sharp advance, early in the day before the decision was handed down. But it was carrcid along with the tide in the late dealings and at its best fig-before the decision was handed down. But it was carried
Money renewed at S% as compared with 3 high last week of 10% . Later in the day there was a further casing on new funds to 7%. There wa< a reaction in foreign exchanges, but this was probably due largely to technical conditions, nnd it had no effect on stock market prices.
' Unsettled Tone at Opening
at S.
The market showed a somewhat unsettled tone the opening. Republic Steel lost "h to 88 while U. Steel common was off ’-i at 97. The decline in Crucible at IPGVj amounted to r*s-
, Several days ago Dow, Jones & Co. forecast an advance in tire prices yesterday. This advance was put into effect by the leading manufacturers of the country. All of the rubber and tire issues were firm at the opening. The oils showed declines of half a point to over a point.
Automobile Stocks Firm
While most of the list was inclined to sell off toward the end of the first hulf hour automobile stocks were firm and General Motors old shares made an early hiprh at 270, an advance of nearly 12 points from Saturday’s close. At this price the stock was up 45 points from the low of the year. Tlie new stock toxichod 27 during the same period as compared with a recent low at 23. General Motors is planning to turn out 80,000 trucks in 1920. The company has spent a lot of money recently on its truck plant at Pontiac and officially say that with orders on hand and in sight a further increase in capacity may be necessary.
Output of automobile factories is now running at the highest figure in the history of the industry, proximately 4,100 frames are being delivered to company daily, which would indicate that the has either already brought, or expects shortly its daily output up to this number of cars. In
five weeks of the current year. General Motors out approximately 49.000 cars, cars a day. It is understood nearer 2,000 ctirs. A 4,100-car schedule daily for Ford
would mean a yearly output at the rate of 1,250.000 cars.
Ap-the Ford company to bring, lhe first •urned or an average of 1,600 that present output is
Baldwin's Tax Requirements Well Taken Care Of
The uptown traders have taken a decidedly bearish position on Baldwin and are freely circulating stories to the effect that the company’s allowance for taxes contained in its 1919 annual statement was not large enough. As a matter of fact it has been learned from an official of the company that tlie tax problem has been amply cared for and that the company actually allowed more for its 1918 Federal taxes than was necessary. This means that part of its 1919 requirements will be taken care of out of 1918 allowance. It is good opinion that Baldwin's Federal taxes in 1919 were not over 25% of the 1918 requirements.
Utter Confusion Follows Supreme Court Decision
I The utmost confusion resulted from the earlier erroneous messages on the Supreme Court decision on the stock dividend case. The first news dispatches sent out of the Supreme Court room told of an adverse decision and before this could be corrected long stocks were thrown overboard and big blocks of sfock were put out for short account. Crucible Steel, which is affected probably more than any other by the decision, broke front 196 to 191 on the earlier dispatch and when this was corrected it jumped to 205 within 10 minutes. General Motors broke from 275 to 264 and then rallied to 279’i. This last price meant : a new high for the day.
» i
i	.	_______r _______________
able to take care of their orders, particularly in such stocks as Crucible. American Woolen and Baldwin in which a split up in capita] or large stock dividends are talked of. When Crucible was selling at 192 a prominent trader put in his order to buy 500 shares at the market which represented the covering of a short contract- He paid 201 for liis stock.
Trading at Daily Rate of Over 2.100.000	.
Trailing from noon to 1:30 totaled 640.000 shares.
con-The carlier dispatches telling ion in the stock dividend case were It .ant connections cmhl be all had been' favorable.
Brokers Helpless
Brokers on the floor reported they were absolutely un-
1 This just about tells the story of the confusion that tinued into the afternoon, of an unfavorable dec
. flashed uptown and sent out over the Western wires.
' took an hour or more before dis
, notified that ihe decision after	.
There were many traders who sold stocks short on the ■ first announcement and then on tlie correction bought : them back and then went long an additional block of stock. ' It was this sort of buying tliat carried Crucible up to 212 : as compared with an early low at 191.
Chandler Affected by Decision
Among the companies which had been awaiting with interest the decision of the Supreme Court regarding stock dividends was the Chandler Motor Car Co. The distribution of 70.000 shares of treasury stock as a stock dividend had been discussed at the recent meeting of the directors. Decision of the Supreme Court holding that stock dividends are not taxable clears the way for a distribution and it is expected that a 33 1-3’'7 stock dividend will be declared on Chandler shares within the next few months. The company’s authorized capitalization is 300,000 shares of no par value of which 210,000 shares arc now outstanding. A distribution of the above amount would still leave 20,000 shares in the treasury. Chandler common jumped to 139up J 1’4 points over night.
-	New Highs Near Close
In a number of instances new highs for the dav were made during the last fifteen minutes of trading. General Motors got up to 302 as compared with a close on Saturday at 25S*i. Baldwin Locomotive got up to 120 while V. S. Steel common touched 100-11. At this price Steel was up over 8 points from the recent low. touched 22S. Railroad stocks joined in the advance result of a handing down of a favorable decision in case against the Interstate Commerce Commission on uation for right of ways nnd terminals and gains in group ran all the way from 2 to 4 points.
(l'or Ksuit^e of Prices See I’ajfe 7)
Crucible Stool s the t)>e vul-this
Oils Reactionary
The market became, a two-sided affair going into the second hour. The motors, tire and rubber stocks were still inclined to advance and the steel issues were also steady,
tionary with Mexican Petroleum off G points from last week's money continued to ncwal rate being S% 10% during the early part of last week.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
On the other hand tlie oils were decidedly repe-
h.igh and I’an-Anierican down 4 points. Call work toward easier levels, the teas compared with 9% on Friday and