THE STOCK MARKET: IMPRESSIVE RALLY
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 23, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
IMPRESSIVE RALLY
Price movements on Stock Lxehange show best tone in recent weeks and o\cr-drowded short interest scampers to cover Large block of Durant holdings of General Motors taken over by <hi Pont interests Volatile stocks like Crucible Steel. Baldwin and Mexican Petroleum recover five to ten points.
Sales. 1,157.400 shares.
Price movements on the Stock Exchange showed an entirely different tone yesterday. Sentiment was distinctly better and from the opening gong on the Stock Exchange prices were stronger. The principal reason for the recovery wnc not that outside trade conditions were any better: in fact, there was a dismal budget of business news over the week-end, consisting of further announcements of industrial shut-downs. reductions of wages, etc.
Clearly, the reason for the sharp rally which, starting in moderate fashion, spread quickly throughout the entire list, was that speculation for the decline, especially during the past week, had been carried to excess and stocks had been sold with a reckless disregard of values. The odd-lot buying last week had been enormous and the steady absorption of stocks on a scale down by important banking interests had served to reduce substantially the floating supply. When recent short sellers tried to take in their contracts they found a scarcity of offerings at anything like last week's prices.	f
One of the stories which gained quite wide currency was that there had been eliminated from speculative calculations the account of a very big operator. This was in addition to the taking over by the du Ponts of a large block of Durant holdings of General Motors.
The recoil from a heavily oversold condition always, is violent and it was so yesterday. Professional operators saw in Saturday’s recovery a hint that further operations for the decline were fraught with danger and they made haste to relieve themselves of short commitments* when they found that further liquidation had been halted.
Numerous stocks of the more volatile type, like Mexican Petroleum, Crucible Steel, and Baldwin Locomotive, rallied all the way from five to ten points from Saturday morning’s lows. Rails, too. had a sharp spurt, under the lead of Southern Pacific. Although the recovery was slowed up from time to time by profit taking and tail-end selling, yet the action of the general list was much more comforting to those bullishly inclined than it has been for a great many weeks.
Higher Opening
bank statements and week-end utter-leaders who forecast business improve-the latest, resulted in higher prices at Crucible Steel, which sold down to 85
The improved antes of industrial ment next year at the opening, on Saturday, opened with an overnight gain of a point at 88 and then ran up to 91%. There were no sales between 89 and 91. U. S. Steel common gained % at 81 while Southern Pacific. which led the upturn in the rails at last week’s close, was up a full point at 111%.
Among the sugars. American Sugar common was up % at 95. American Locomotive led the equipments with a gain of a point at 82%. Mexican Petroleum at 156 was up a point and then ran up to 157%.
Geo. J. Whelan Reassures Tobacco Stockholders
The market acted well right through the first hour. It is true that the bears used the early upturn to put out further short lines, but this strengthened rather than weakened the market’s technical position. Tobaccos in particular gave a good account of themselves and at its early high of 52%. Tobacco Products was up 4 points from the low of Saturday. The opening sale on American Tobacco was at 116%. up 5%. The early high on United Retail Stores showed a (gain of over 2 points. The advances in this group were due to the statement given out by George J. Whelan in which he stated that none of his companies wen* in a position where they could not maintain present dividends and furthermore that any change in dividend rates of properties in which he is interested would probably be upward instead of downward.
present prices the entire capitalization of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, stocks and bonds, has a market value of about $175,000,000, not including the recent note issue, very little of the latter having been spent For the five years ended January 1 last, Bethlehem Steel showed total net earnings after taxes of about $235,000,000. In that period S75/)00,000 was added to working capital. It charged off in that time close to $80,000,000 for depreciation and depletion. In steel ingot production it is second only to U. S. Steel, and its plants and other property arc appraised at $205,000,000. Bethlehem’s surplus for five years was equal to $150 a share on the common stock and earnings on the common for this year alone will exceed $25 a share.
Steel Stocks Lead Upturn
New highs for the day were made during the third hour, the steel stocks in particular showing up well. Bethlehem Steel was up 5 points from the low of last week. The call money renewal rate was 7%, but within an hour the rate had gotten down to 6%. In the final dealings the rate declined to 5%. It is nearly a year since money loaned below 6%.
Chicago Interests Purchase Texas Co.
Firmness in Texas Co. shares is a reflection of heavy purchases of the stock by Chicago interests who are becoming identified with the affairs or the company. In brokerage circles good buying of the stock is reported to have come from several large cities in Texas including Houston and Dallas. Among those said to have recerftly been purchasers of the stock are Marshall Field, Edward and, Phillip Swift and William Wrigley, Jr. With other prominent banking and commercial men of Chicago these interests have just completed an inspection of the Texas Co. properties.
Baldwin Locomotive
There has been good buying of Baldwin Locomotive. Several thousand shares were purchased over the last few days by interests in close touch ■with the company. The stock has been taken up and paid for. The fact that Bald. v.in is doing a heavy business in locomotives with good r.rospects for next year, has induced good buying of the stock. Quite a lot of stock sold when selling above 130 has been bought back at around 95.
Du Pont Takes Over Large Durant Holdings in G. M.
■ The Dow, Jones story telling of the taking over of . some of the Durant General Motors holdings by du Pont • created a real stir in the Street. TVhile no statement fur-i ther was forthcoming there seemed to be a feeling that : the sale to the du Ponts was only the speculative holdings . of Mr. Durant. In other words the Street is loth to believe that Mr. Durant has any intension of severing his connection with General Motors. They do not belicvd he would remain with the company in an administrative capacity unless he had a large stock interest in the con. cern. It has always been assumed, although never ofli-cia’ly stated, that Mr. Durant’s holdings of General Mo-
; tor=
. up to this last-transaction.
. the du Pont Co. it was stated that controlled at that time something
. Motors common.
.ock were at least the equal of the du Pont holdings In the last annual report of the du Pont interests over 30% of General
Bears Given Squeeze in
Last Hour
When money dropped to 5% ir. the la^t hour, the pace of the rally was nc'-clcrated and prices reeove-ed a substantial part of the losses shown on last week’? severe breaks. Southern Pacific, which was the best acting stock on the list-during the recent avalanche of selling, advanced to 115. a net advance of 4% from last week’s close. Crucible advanced to 96%, again of over 11 points from Saturday's low. Mexican Petroleum got up to 163%, up 8%; American tn 73%, up 5%, and Chandler to 77; up 2%. After the close money dropped to 4%%.	'•
(For Range of Prices See Page 101
Look for Lower Taxes
The dispatch from Washington stating that the program of the Republican administration was to greatly reduce revenue through taxation, was pleasing to interests with large incomes. For the last several years the big interests in Wall Street have held aloof from the market on account of what they termed prohibitive taxation. A financier with an income of more than $1,000,000 annually, said he would be satisfied if he had to turn aver only one-half his income to the Government. “What is the use of making money.” said he, “if we are permitted to retain about 25% of the profits, after Federal and State taxes. Development of the country’s resources will be at a standstill until there is a material reduction iff taxation.”
Mexican Petroleum Buoyant
On Saturday when Mexican Petroleum got down around 151 the tip was freely circulated that the stock was about to break through the old low of the year, 148. But tips on Mexican Petroleum have a way of going awry. Yesterday the stock was one of the most buoyant of the whole list and around 11:30 ran up to 159%, an advance of 8 points over the low of the previous session. Crucible Steel was helped by the statement of Chairman Wilkinson and made an early high at 92, up 7 from Saturday’s low. The rest of the list retained all of the early gains and Studebaker picked up 2 points from the opening level. General Motors at 15% compares with a low last week of 12%.
Bethlehem Steel
Among the steels, Bethlehem Steel made an early high elose to 55, up 4 from the recent low. On a basis of
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.