HEAVY SELLING PRESSURE: Industrials and oils have severe setback ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Sep 28, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
HEAV1 SELLING PRESSURE	Automobile Manufacturers Considering Prices
Industrials and oils have severe setback —Mexican Petroleum after making; a new higli on move reacts nine points—17. S. Rubber off seven points on financing plans— Tobac'-os and low-priced rails hold up well during the selling in other parts of the list.
Sales. 1.090.400 shares.
Despite the extremely favorable local Federal Reserve Bank statement on Saturday, a strong bear clique hammered prices from the outset. They used the Boston banking story as one of the bear arguments despite the fact that none of the large institutions lire involved. Once they started price:- going the rest was comparatively easy, particularly in the oil and industrial shares. Mexican Petroleum, after making a new high, was beaten down 9 points, Baldwin over 3 points, U. S. Rubber over 7 points, and other stocks in proportion.
The rails after some early hesitation sold otl with the rest of the list hut came back sharply at the close. The leaders were Western Pacific, with an advance of 4 points. Rock Island, St. Louis Southwestern and Mew Haven. Foreign exchange markets were steadier.
Oils Opening Feature
Oils were still the leader- of the market. The opening on Mexican Petroleum at 194, up 1%, after which the stock sold at 194•■i. This is within 2’4 point.- of the high on the move. Pan-American gamed at 94. A block of 1.200 shares of American Woolen appeared at 75, off 1 points, and nearly ten points from the high on tho recent recovery. U. S. Steel common was off % at 88%.
Southern Railway Makes New High
Among the rails a block of 3.1100 shares of Southern Railway was taken at the opening at 32, marking u new high on the move. New Haven was up % at 36%. St. Lotus Southwestern lost % at 38%.
New low prices for the day were made during the third hour. At 190, Mexican Petroleum was off 7 points from the early high of the day. Pan-American acted much better than Mexican, and had an eighth market all the way down. Studebaker was heavily sold, following the announcement that a conference of the automobile manufacturers has been called at Detroit, to discuss prices.
The bears, who were having things decidedly their own way, spread all sorts of preposterous rumors about the Boston banking situation. Leading banking interests here, however, insisted that only some small institutions were involved, and that there was no possibility of any serious results.
V. S. Rubber at New Low
On the news from Boston that U. S. Rubber Co. will probably do some financing befoie the first of the year the stock sold off to 77 **•. This was a new low price for the year. Mexican Petroleum sold at	but on the other
hand the low-priced rails became prominent on the up side. This had a steadying effect on the market during the final hour.
Boston Banking Situation Not Serious
There i.- absolutely nothing serious in the banking situation in Boston. Some of the banks who were identified with Ponzi are now being taught the value of conservatism.
I'. S. Steel Below 87
Baldwin and most of the steel stocks made new lows foi the day during the hint half hour. U. S. Steel common got down to 8fi-L. At 74% U S; Rubl>er was off over 7 points on the day and showed absolutely no rallying power. Mexican Petroleum rallied anout 3 points but subsequently lost half of this recovery. Tobacco stocks and the low priced rails acted well right up to the close. United Retail Stores led the group with sale.- above 71. St. Louis Southwestern common made a new high for the year at 41).
Pressure on American Woolen
Tho market turned decidedly reactionary around 10:30, xxith particular pressure on American Woolen, steel stocks and the motor and tire shares. American Woolen sold down to 73, which i< within ’.i of the low of the year made m August. U. S. Rubber made an early low at 80'A against a low for tho year at 80. Studebaker made a new low for 1920 at <»7% and Goodrich again sold below 50. General Motors touched last week's low of 19%.
Mexican Petroleum nt New High
Tho early run-tip carried Mexican Petroleum to 297, marking e. new high on the move, but it. had a quick reaction of 4 points wnen the rest of the list sold off. PanAmerican Petroleum, according to reports, has about closed a deal which g’vcs it manv mil'ions of acres of promising now oil lands.
Labor Situation -
Now that a readjustment of commodity prices is under way. the labor problem is becoming clearer. With certain producers cutting prices from 20 to 35%, lalmr will not lie inclined to ask for higher wage-. Danger of important strikes has been pa<»ed. Foreigner1' are arriving nt New York at a record breaking nite. In fact the port of Now York was never so congested with Europeans seeking residence in this country. These foreigners will seek employment in the mines, mills and factories and relieve any labor shortage. Wages will eventually have to come down in sympathy with drop in cost of living. An incieuse in efficiency can now bo looked for. This is on<‘ feature of the situation pieusing to producers.
Aggressive Selling
Tho selling became decidedly aggressive during the second hour and some snnrp breaks in pr>ces occurred. Baldwin sold down to IDS, off 3, Mexican Petroleum at 191 was off 6 points from the high of the first hour. Crucible reacted 5 points, Steel nt 87%, off nearly 2 points and other stocks in proportion. The rails hold up well at the start of the break bur. finally gave way.
Inside Buying of Crucible
A great deal of the recent buying of Crucible can bo traced to inside source- It is claimed that a new bull pool has been formed in Crucible, and that a rise will be based upon tho plan of the company to deciare another substantial stock dividend.
Steeli
United States Stt-4 common held remarkably well last week, in spite of the price readjustment downward. The rea-on is that U. S. Steel was one company that refused to put up its prices, notwithstanding that tho independent companies weie able to sell steel nt prices 810 to S40 a ton abov<' those of the lug company. Steel's bookings represent business taken nt prices that arc still far below current quotations. The result is that U. S. Steel is receiving no cancellations to speak of, and practically every ton of its 11,000,000 tons of business will be specified against.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.