THE STOCK MARKET.: STOCKS FOLLOW STERLING
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Feb 5, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
STOCKS FOLLOW STERLING
Further break In rate on London in early trading; precipitates flood of selling on Stock Exchange—Movement is stemmed in afternoon hours when demand sterling-rebounds 12 cents from extreme low—Call money rate rises to 25 % in late trading after renewing kt 14 % -
Sales, 1,759,300 shares.
For a time trading in stocks kept up a fair imitation of the demoralization existing in the foreign exchange markets. Wall Street has not witnessed such a tremendous outpouring of stocks since the break of last November as flooded the market until early afternoon. No special group was affected. The wave of selling was well distributed throughout the list and while the more speculative issues suffered the severest breaks, the lasses as a whole were quite evenly divided.
On the news that British importations of cotton were stopped a senational rally took place in sterling exchange. The rate bounded upward in the early aftemon to 3.31, a recovery of twelve oents. Similar movements occured in the other exchanges. In fact, advances were so rapid that dealers were practically unable to follow the fluctuations.
This improvement was reflected in a better tone on the Stock Exchange and a number of issues like American Woolen, Mexican Petroleum, Crucible Steel, General Motors and other stocks which had -been severely depressed in the early trading made good recoveries.
But after renewing at 14% the call money rate was marked up to 25% during the final dealings and sterling lost practically all of . its rally. These developments checked the rebound in stocks and prevented the rccovery from expanding to anything like impressive proportions.
Everybody Sells
As a result of the severe break on Tuesday commission houses sent out many margin calls over night and this factor, in conjunction with another sharp break in sterling exchange, produced a flood of selling orders at the opening. Opening transactions in Steel common were lumped into a block of 1.700 shares which changed hands at a recession of a quarter point from the previous final. Crucible Steel and General Motors lost three points on the initial sales and all active issues showed declines. Tobacco stocks suffered with the rest. United Retail Stores selling off a point to 81 and A. T. Securities two points to 61. Baldwin Locomotive was relatively firm, opening at 111%, against Tuesday's last price of 111%.
Oils Particularly Weak
If any particular group could be said to have been weaker than the market as a whole in the first half-hour, it was the oil shares which sold off sharply under the leadership of the Doheny issues. Mexican Petroleum broke to 1S6, off 2%, and Pan-American to 88. off 1%. Middle States Oil declined to 31. representing a drop of 50% from its high in January. Sinclair Oil touched a low of 38, off 1%, and Texas Co. sold down to 187, compared with a high of 199 in the previous session. Steel common diowed a disposition to rally, getting up to 102%, a recovery of % from the opening sale. American Woolen continued under pressure, receding to 139. a drop of more than 20 points from its recent high. Urgent liquidation broke out in American Sugar which sold down to 129, off 3%, at times losing a point "netween sales.
American Hide & Leather
American Hide & Leather preferred sold at 110, off 4 points. This issue has now declined to a level where inside support can be anticipated. Net profits of American Hide & Leather Co. in the December quarter totaled $465,932 for the $12,500,000 preferred stock. This compares with the record of $1,212,416 attained in the September quarter. The falling off in earnings was due to the fact that the market for hides broke badly in October and November, following a long period of rising prices. Since the break occurred the market has recovered 25% to 40% of the lost ground and the outlook is for a continued strong price level. In important trade circles it is felt that there is slight danger that this country will be inundated with a flood of cheap hides from Russia' as a result of the action of the Allies in reopening trade with that country. It is seriously doubted that Russia has any large 'bulk of merchantable hides. Russia is in such economic distress that the present population has used hides in most primitive ways to provide clothing. It is pointed out, furthermore, that even if Russia had an actual exporting situation the grade of hides she could ship would not serve American Hide & Leather as the largest producer of upper leather in the United States.
- Two Points of Resislance
Steel common and Baldwin Locomotive offered the best resistance to the great outpouring of stocks in the early trading, and the strength in these pivotal issues served to steady the general market around the close of the first hour. Baldwin rallied to 111%, and Steel common to 102%, and these recoveries started a similar movement in other active issues. Industrial Alcohol snapped back to 09% from 98, Republic Iron & Steel to 108 from 106%, Crucible Steel to 209 from 207, and General Motors to 291 from 287. American Tobacco was, acutely weak, falling to 241%, compared with the previous close of 250%, and a high of 260 on Tuesday.
■	,	American Linseed
American Linseed was steady at 82%. The recent action of this stock has suggested an accumulation such as was seen at the end of 1918 and in the early part of 1919
S9,
when talk first began to be heard of the large profits made by some of the subsidiary companies owned by American Linseed, but whose inorjme did not appear in the parent company's statement. At the last ■ annual meeting the company adopted the policy of submitting a consolidated balance sheet and earnings report of the parent company and its subsidiaries. It is now reported that American Linseed is shortly to follow up the change in its methods of accounting with a change in the physical and financial control of its subsidiaries in a way that may give the common stock a larger visible equity and possibly a dividend return considerably greater than the 3% basis created three months ago.
England Stops Cotton Imports
■After a rally of brief duration around 11 o’clock prices again sagged off and new low levels on the current decline were established during the second hour. Steel common held well at 102 until the announcement of England’s action in stopping cotton imports owing to the collapse in sterling exchange. This step brought visions of goods designed for export backing up into this country and the offerings of stocks came more freely than at any time since the wave of liquidation started in the previous session. Steel common receded to 101%, a net decline of %; Southern Pacific to 95%, off 2%; International Paper to 75, off 3%; Pan American to 86, off 3%; Studebaker to 98%, off 3%; Crucible Steel to 205%, off 6%; American Can to 49%, off 1%; Chandler Motors to 128, off 4%; General Motors to 285%, off S; Industrial Alcohol to 97%, off 3%; Baldwin Locomotive to 109, off 2%; Republic Iron & Steel to 104%. off 2%; and Texas Co. to 184, off 14.	'
Sterling Break Hurts Marine Preferred
International Mercantile Marine preferred sold at , off 4 points from the last sale on Tuesday. This issue has suffered a steady decline since it sold ex-dividend $8 a share several weeks ago. The principal factor affecting the company’s position has been the foreign exchange situation. Earnings ran at a high rate in the first six months of last year until the exchange situation became acute.
With sterling at its present level of depreciation it is difficult to see from a theoretical standpoint how Europe can afford to buy any American goods, and yet the practical answer is that despite the enormous handicap of demoralized exchanges, there arc certain American commodities which Europe must have, and which it continues to buy, even though in decreasing volume. On the other hand, freight rates are by no means the only source of revenue which International Mercantile Marine possesses. Its passenger business has been satisfactory and has been steadily gaining in importance and earning power. The offset which larger passenger revenues are making at this time is lookeel upon as a distinctly hopeful sign. Meanwhile, the position of the company is characterised as analagous to that of hundreds of American manufacturers who possess in Europe an enormous potential market, from which they are temporarily excluded by an abnormal exchange situation, but it is questioned whether such conditions will indefinitely continue.
Rally on Scale Buying and Covering
In the early afternoon concerted buying on a scale down made its appearance. Combined with short covering operations, this support served to stem the tide, at least temporarily, and stocks which had been severely depressed in the earlier trading enjoyed rallies. American Woolen ran up very sharply against an overcrowded bear following. recovering to 137 from a low of 131. Mexican Petroleum sold back to 1S2%, Pan-American to S31.!, Baldwin Locomotive to 108%. and General Motors to 284.
Copper Exports Now Only 25%- of Production
The copper stocks failed to withstand the flood of selling orders. Although the adverse rate of exchange has not had a healthy effect on the price of the metal since it indicates that an export movement of big proportions must be deferred until the international situation is clarified, it must be remembered that the copper situation has undergone a radical change since the war started. In pre-war times this country exported probably in excess of 60% of its copper production. Today domestic consumers are taking about 75% of this country’s output. Furthermore, the big copper companies like Anaconda. Cerro de Pasco, Kennccott, Utah and Greene-Cananea arc getting additional revenue from the high price of silver. That in all probability was the reason why Anaconda increased its January output to a figure better than any month last year. Anaconda is a big silver producer. Copper interests are sanguine that 1920 will witness high prices for the metal, increased production, expansion in domestic and foreign business, and better earnings than 1919.
Midvale Earns $5-19 in 1919
Midvale Steel and Ordnance Co. made a good report for tlie last quarter of 1919, showing the equivalent of $1.63 a share earned on the stock. Returns compiled from the quarterly reports showed net profits, after charges and taxes, equal to $5.19 a share last year against $14.58 a. share in the previous year. In other words Midvale earned its dividend with a comfortable margin to spare in 1919.
Stiff Money Induces Irregularity
Steel common rose to 101% in the closing trading and the general market was showing a decidedly better tone when the improvement was checked by a run-up in the call money rate to 25% and an casing off in Steel to 100%. The monetary stringency reflected Government withdrawals, a temporary condition that will be corrected later in the week but traders were not inclined to follow stock prices up in the face of the stiff rate and the final tone was irregular.
(For Raiifje of Prices See Psifire 7)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.