THE STOCK MARKET: A BAD BREAK Selling is renewed and prices in many ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 20, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	..... ...	....	. ..... ......... .	... ............ ..... .......... .....
THE ST OWK MRKET
A BAD' BREAK
Selling is renewed and prices in many cases are forced below the lows of February —Pan-American off over .11 points and Mexican Petroleum 15 points—TJ. S. Industrial Alcohol and Columbia Graphophone about the only stocks to hold up—Call money continues at <>%•
Sales, 1,864,100 shares.
A prominent operator who was active on the bear side up tb ten days ago and who then left town after covering his short contracts returned to the financial distrirt yesterday. He is credited with having led the attack on prices which culminated in a break which carried U. S. Steel two points below the low of last February. The break extended throughout the steel list and into the oils and motors. Almost without exception new lows were established for the present decline, and in many instances as in the case of Steel a level below that of February was made.
The operator referred to above left the Street early last week because he believed a substantial rally was due. When this rally failed to materialize he decided that prices could be put even lower and for the day at least accomplished his purpose. Just how much real liquidation resulted .from these hammering tactics will not be known for some days.
Opening Irregular
The opening was irregular although the changes were only fractional. U. S. Steel common lost % to 94%. In the oil group Texas Co. was unchanged at 47%, PanAmerican A stock off % at 102, the B stock 97%, up %. Royal Dutch was off % at 114%. Traders have been selling Royal Dutch for the last two days.
After an opening at 59%. off Is, Cuban-American Sugar got above 00.
Stocks Sold on Harding's Statements	"
Traders construed Governor W. P. G. Harding's statements on the attitude of the Federal Reserve Board in regard to the country’s credit situation as bearish and proceeded to sell stocks. During the first 43 minutes most of the steels, oils and motor issues were driven down anywhere from a point to three points from the opening levels. But leading bankers failed to-view the situation in a pessimistic way and expressed the opinion that Governor Harding's remarks bore out their contention repeatedly expressed recently that Wall Street loans had been thoroughly liquidated. These interests called attention to the foliowing remarks in Mr. Harding's speech which some of the morning newspapers did not carry:
Part of His Speech Optimistic
“It is true that under existing conditions the volume of credit required in any transaction is much greater than was the case in pre-war times, but it is also tme that the resources of the member and non-men?ber hanks would be ample to take care of the essential business of the country and to a large extent of non-essentials as well if there were a freer flow of goods and credit. It ‘frozen loans' were liquified, and if commodities which are held back either for speculative purposes or because of lack of transportation facilities should go to the markets, and if large stocks of merchandise should be reduced, the resultant release of credit would have a most beneficial effect upon the genera! situation."
A Market Opinion
The following summary of the market situation sent over the western wires by a Broadway commission house attracted considerable attention as furnishing an excellent lino on the immediate outlook: “Wo arc getting in the headlines of the papers the universal discussion of what was peculiar to Wall Street a month ago and for which the rest of the country denounced Wall Street as unreasomib'y pessimistic. Wall Street was not disturbed by that criticism, but continued to sell stocks and the sellers of :i month ago arc not going to be disturbed by •die wave of hysteria which has taken hold of superficial economists throughout the country now. Rather they are going to conclude as the Federal Reserve Board concluded there is no real crisis ahead, and that tho orderly completion of commercial readjustment can easily be maintained because for some months the Ro.-ervc Board has been preventing over expansion of credits with the result that today the proportion of loans to deposits is even smaller ’.han it was 1'0 days ago. Our information is that there will lie no advance in the rediscount rate resulting from the present conference, although there is every reason to expert one before June 1. l.ikcwi.-e. however, tlc’rc is reason to expect gold imports before Juno 1 and mi :is-imrancc of a very substantial freight rate increase which are the items absorbing the attention of insiders at the moment instead of tlie front page price-cutting- bulletins.’’
Cuban-American Sugar on $7 Annual Basis
j
Despite the placing of Cuban-American Sugar on a ?7 annual basis this stock sold off with the rest of the list. At 52 the yield is better than 13','f.
Question of Discount Rates
Members of the Advisory Council and the Class A directors who have been in conference in Washington witii the Federal Reserve Board tiro quoted as viewing the credit outlook with optimism. They do not believe that discount rates will be advanced in the near future.
ruary. American Woolen sold at 102; the February low was 115.	.
Pan-American Speculative Holdings Eliminated
. Pan-American Petroleum by its drop of more than 6 points eliminated large speculative holdings. The stock was taken by the pool which has been operating in the “B” stock.
Federal Reserve Action Misinterpreted
A prominent banker says: “The decline in stocks i3 due to a misinterpretation of the proposed action of the Federal Reserve Board. As a matter of fact the action to be taken is constructive, not destructive. It will mean a free movement of commodities and easier money. Liqui-* dation of frozen credits will release a lot of money, and a great percentage of this money will find its way into the New York banks. I am convinced the peak has been reached so far as high money rates arc concerned.
New Lows Near Close
New lows for the day were established during the last fifteen minutes of trading. U. S. Steel common sold at 90%, while Baldwin got down to 106%. Mexican Petroleum at 165% was off 15 points from the previous close. United Retail Stores rallied about a point from the early low in which it ran contrary to the rest of the list.
(For Range of Prices Sec-Page 7)
Sugar Companies in Strong Position
Sugar stocks with the exception of Cuban-American held up well during the..second hour. The sugar companies will establish record earnings in the current year. Advancing prices are due to a shortage which has been aggravated by heavy buying of Cuban sugar by Europe. The American Sugar Refining Co. is in the strongest position financially in its history. The last annual report showed around .$30,000,000 cash on hand, and it is believed the company will close the current year with record earnings. Shareholders seem confident that thce-e will bo a melon cutting before the dose of the year.
Some February Lows Broken
The entire list made new lows on the present decline early in the afternoon. U. S. Steel common got down to 91, which is 1% points below the low of February. The previous low on the present decline was 92%. Baldwin got-under 109, but this stock sold as low as 103% 4n Feb-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.