THE STOCK MARKET: NEW LOWS
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 13, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
NEW LOWS
Entire list gives way and shows little rallying power at. the close—Even the standard rails -sell off ©harply—V. S. Steel hold up comparatively well early in the day. but finally gave way-—Call money still at 9 >. finally sells off to new low—Call money still at 9r< .
Sales. 1,290,800 shares.
traders who the previous price. This
The market had another severe setback. A break early ir» the afternoon carried practically the entire list below the low levels of Wednesday. Many had bought stocks, looking for a rally from low, threw them overboard irrespective of was particularly noticeable among the rails.
i There was little in the way of news, but the bear clique quick to perceive that buying power on a big broad scale was still lacking found little trouble in other break. There was no change in the call and the recent average 9<r figure prevailed the session. 1
causing an-money rate ...__________________ ,	throughout
Foreign exchange market#; were; steady*.
Endicott-Johnson Breaks
Traders were still active on the short side and opening prices wore somewhat soft. While the opening sale on Mexican Petroleum at 169%, was up 4, the stock quickly dropped to 168. But it was in the steels that the main pressure was evident. The first sale of Bethlehem Steel :B was at 614, off but the stock then dropped to a new low on the decline below 60. Republic sold off a point soon after the opening.
I Among the rails, Southern Pacific was unchanged at I 1124, hut quickly dropped to 111%. On the other hand, Northern Pacific was up 4 at 914. This stock gave an unusually good account of itself near the close on Thursday. Tobacco stocks were off fractionally.
Steels Under Pressure at Opening
:	Atte'mjfts to depress prices were not uniformly suc-
i cessful over the first hour. There were some exceptions, j of course, among the specialties. • Endicott-Johnson -old i down to 564. off 54 from the previous close.
Canadian Pacific Reported Under Accumulation
• rent decline. General Electric sold down to 1254, off ’ 64, on financing reports.
Unionization of Steel Workers Improbable Now
Wall Street is paying no attention to the renewed threats of the Federation of Labor to unionize the steel industry. With the. failure of the last steel strike, the repudiation of Gompers by the public in the last Presidential election and reduced steel operations, any action taken by the Federation of Labor looking toward unionization would receive scanty attention from manufacturers.
Practically Whole List Carried to New Lows '
The whole list had a bad break during the third hour and the turnover for this period amounted to 256,000 shares. In the earlier reaction in the shipping stocks the equipments and steels in the majority of instances had held above the low of Wednesday. But the drive between noon and 1:00 o’clock carried nearly every stock in the list to a new low. U. S. Steel common got down to 824, : Baldwin to 1014 ,and among the rails, Northern Pacific, which had acted well earlier in the day, became a target for bear attack for this very reason and broke 5 points from 92 4 to 874.
Short Account in Market Large
Southern Pacific held up well during this break, but traders continued to sell it short right into the fourth hour. They contended that no one stock could stand up against the general assault. A premium of 4 is bid for the use of American Sugar common, while there is also a premium amounting to 1-32 on Sears-Roebuck. This furnishes an excellent idea of the big short account now in the market,
Canadian Pacific continued heavy and sold down to 115 4. There was a reaction at one time of a full point between sales. Call money continued to loan at 9%.
International Paper
International Paper made a new low at 55. The company early next month is expected to make its announcement of newsprint prices for the first quarter of-1921 and it is generally expected that the present price of 64 cents a1 pound will be maintained with the possibility that a slight advance may be forthcoming. The recent advance in freight rates was estimated as adding $3 a ton to the cost of manufacture. The Canadian Export Paper Co. this week announced that 1921 first quarter prices would 6% cents on contract. Their current price is the same that charged by I. P.
bo
as
There was a rally in sterling exchange which carried it approximately a cent above the last of Thursday. Traders have been selling Canadian Pacific on the weakness in the foreign exchange markets. But it is common
•	gossip that a large banking group has been buying Canadian Pacific for several weeks past. This buying has been
! going on without demonstration. Canadian Pacific is off
*	nearly 10 points from its recent high. There seems to be ! no basis for the stories that foreign holdings of Canadian ‘ Pacific have been dumped on the market. One house with ! prominent Canadian connections has been buying the stock.
’ Railway Steel Spring Busy With Repair Work
At 884. Railway Steel Spring touched the low point ! of the year Thursday. Railway Steel Spring has enjoyed i s prosperous year, and is expected to show a substantial , surplus after dividends. While the demand for cars and ! locomotives has been light. Ruilwuy Steel Spring has been busy with repair work for their railroads. Equipment companies look for a heavy gain in business next year. This forecast is based upon inquiries already in ; the market.
Market Shows Little Rallying Power
The market showed little rallying power in the final Southern Pacific finally gave way and sold be-Eeadrng got down to 90, a decline of over 10 U. S. Steel common also
a new low. About the only stocks to hold up were of the specialties on which a premium was being in the loa ncrowd.
(For Rango of Prices See Page S)
dealing.*.
low 110.
points from the high of the week, made
some asked
; Good Buying of Northern Pacific Reported on Every Dip
Northern Pacific acted better than Southern Pacific during the early trading. The stock ran up to 924. which was the high price of Thursday. According to floor gossip excellent buying comes into this stock every time it i dips below 9i).
Prospects of Steei Merger Better
After its early dip, Bethlehem rallied a point. U. S. ' Steel common was steady throughout the morning, and moved within a narrow radius of 83% to 84. The merger . of Bethlehem Steel, Midvale Steel, and certain other steel companies is still a possibility. When negotiations were declared off, the head of one of the companies stated that an agreement could not be reached on terms of exchange of stock for that of the parent company. “Cer-; tain companies want too much for their stock,” said he, “due to the very large earnings they are showing. These earnings are not normal, and it is difficult to establish an equitable basis for exchange. When earnings start on the down grade. 1 hope negotiations will be resumed.” As Wall Street well knows, earnings arc turning downward.
Shipping Stocks Hard Hit
. A violent attack on the shipping stocks shortly be-|fore noon had an unsettling effect on the whole list. Some I of the extreme declines were Atlantic. Gulf at 1114, off ? 7; United Fruit 199%*, off 44; Marine preferred 554, ■ off 3%; Marine common 13, off 24. and American International 554. off 64. The break here carried Baldwin ! down to 103%. but this price was nearly a point above ! the low of the week. U. S. Steel common got down to | 83, but this likewise was higher than the low on the cur-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.