THE STOCK MARKET: ACUTE WEAKNESS
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Dec 22, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
ACUTE WEAKNESS
Stocks break to new low records on largest turnover of year—Steel common holds above 7S until late afternoon, when it breaks sharply—Rcplogle Steel drops more than twenty points.
Sales, 1,713.200 shares.
ploglc Steel, of course, docs not pay any dividends, but inasmuch as control has always been in the hands of a few individuals up to now it has not suffered greatly in the collapse that has hit other industrial shares.
Steel Companies and Inventories
In view of the fact that U. S. Steel, Republic Iron & Steel, Midvale Steel, Lackawanna Steel, Bethlehem Steel and other large independent companies are self-contained in the matter of Taw materials, they have to worry little over inventories. They do not have to buy from the outside. Then again, all the largo steel companies in the current yeai* will show up well in earnings, surpluses available for the common shares running from $10 to $25 a share. In other words several years’ dividends .will have been earned this year. Most of the surplus of the steel industry accumulated during the war had gone into working capital.
Steel Common Leads List Into New Lows
Urgent selling continued during the fourth hour. Acute weakness characterized the entire list’ and many active issues broke into new low ground for the year. Steel common held up better than anything else, hut even the market leader touched a new low at 78%. Sinclair broke to 20, off 2%; American Woolen to 58, off 2%; Replogle to 47%, off 21%; Baldwin to 82%, off 3%; Vanadium to 28%, off 7%; Kelly-Springfield to 27%, off 5%; Reading to 77%, off 3%; Atlantic Gulf to 100%, off 3; Southern Pacific to 94. off 2% and Mexican Petroleum to 154, off 3%.
Steel Recovers Full Point at Close
Steel common rallied a fuJl point from the day’s low in the final dealings, getting up to 77%. Other stocks which displayed a rallying tendency were St. Paul common, which recovered nearly 4 points to 24%, and Sears-Roebuck, which rallied 1% to 87%.	■
That the semi-demoralization which marked the dealings on the Stock Exchange spasmodically during the day was not turned into a complete rout was attributed solely to the powerful and open hanking support which came into Steel common. It was this support which made the decline a more or less orderly one for tho greater part of the day, although a surprisingly "thin” market was in evidence for many of the leading speculative issues. .
Bears had a field day. On the heaviest trading which Wall Street has seen in many months—a turnover close to the 2,000,000-share mark—prices crumbled away in all parts of the list, some of the declines ranging as high as 20 points as in the case of the closelv-held Replogle Steel.
Steel common made a mw low at 78 just around 2 o’clock. So confident were the big bear plungers of their ability to further smash prices that a wager of $25,000 was reported from one of the up-town offices that Steel would break through 78. Shortly after this, Steel did break to a new low record at 76%.
The cause of the fresh break in prices, which carried hundreds of issues to new low prices, was puzzling to the Street It was figured out by some of the experts that it was largely caused by the liquidation of certain big bank loans.
The collapse of Steel half an hour before the close served to bring in a flood of fresh liquidation that brought fresh discouragement to the Street, the only encouraging point being that admittedly such a smash in prices could not continue much longer.
A lx>wcr Opening
Industrials and some of the dividend paying rails a< well as most of the coppers showed a somewhat easier tone at the opening. Anaconda lost a full point at 31 which, of course, constituted a new low price for the year. U. S. Steel common was off % at 78% and then touched the previous low of^the year nt 78%. International Paper opened at 43 which was the .previous low of the year.
Houston Oil, which had a bad break at the previous session, was up % at 56%, but then dropped to a new low below 56. Southern Pacific showed a gain of % at 95%. but American Sugar was off % at 82%. Republic Iron & Steel again met support around the 57 level.
Copper Storks Sell Off Sharply
There was another bad break in the copper stocks, which carried Anaconda close to 30. and Utah below 46. American Smelting broke to 36, off 2% points. There were two bearish factors in the Smelting situation, the first being the announcement that Guggenheim Brothers have become the selling agent for the porphyries’ copper output, replacing the American Smelting Co.; and the second being the story of internal troubles involving Karl Eilers, the former vice-president of the company, who has instituted a suit in order to give him access to the corporation’s stock list. In this suit the plaintiff alleges that the members of the Guggenheim family now own only 223 shares of preferred stock and 1,600 shares of common, against holdings of 300,000 shares of stock of both classes at the time the family first came into the corporation, in 1901.	■
Inquiry on Houston Oit by Governing Committee
After its early low at 55*4 Houston Oil ran up to 64. Stock Exchange authorities are investigating trans actions in this stock in the belief that raiding played an important part in the stock’s recent decline. Some of the selling represented necessitous liquidation, but several large trader*, are known to have boasted of the easy profits made on the short side of Houston and the report of their activities caused the Governing Committee to start an inquiry.
Irregularity Prevails Before Noon
The market was decidedly irregular during the second hour. U. S. Steel common held up well, but Bethlehem Steel B made a new low for the year at 50. While Mexican Petroleum was also holding up, Sinclair broke to a new record low at 21%. International Paper also got into new low ground at 40%.
"Waste” Valuable to Sinclair
An interesting calculation has been made by an investor in the securities of Sinelair Consolidated Oil based on the recent figures showing that for the eleven months of this year the production of Sinclair casinghead gas has been more than 13,000,000 gallons and an increase over the eleven months of 1919 of nearly 34%. This casinghead gas is a "pick up‘* for oil companies as it is made from vapor that formerly went to waste, and gross income is almost all profit for the initial installation of plants is paid for in the first few months of operation. He estimates that the Sinclair Co. will produce during the entire year more than 14,000,000 gallons and will produce in cash for the company at the prevailing price at least $3,300,000, or a sum almost sufficient to pay the interest on the $50,000,000 gold notes of the company.
A Factor Sure to Count Eventually
The public is beginning to realize that stocks are cheap. An evidence of this is found in the heavy demand for odd lots. Millions of dollars of securities have been paid for and taken out of the market The old line stocks are getting back into favor. This buying will eventually turn the market as it has done in the past. Traders are not inclined to make heavy commitments on the long side of the maket as long as losses are being established. As one trader put it: "I bought a thousand shares of the stock of a certain company Monday. I believed the stock was selling below its intrinsic value. The order clerk had hardly time to announce the purchase until he received instructions to sell 2,000 shares of the stock of the same company. The order was from a wealthy man who wished to establish a loss against his income tax.”
Rcplogle Stocks Collapse
There was a collapse in the Replogle stocks nid-day. Replogle Steel broke 10 points to 59 wh’’ ium at 29% was off 6%. Vanadium recc^ *	cp/
s dividend from a $6 annual basis to $4 afe
directors were In favor of continuing the	J
(For Range of Trices Sec Page 9)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.