THE STOCK MARKET: BEARS TRAPPED Sharp upturn in prices on greatly ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 27, 1921;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 10      	- _ .
THE STOCK MARKET
BEARS TRAPPED
s Sharp upturn In prices on greatly increased.-volume—Credible Steel jumps 3 points between sales—Rubbers and motors ?an exception to general trend—Call money !5.%—Sterling exchange reactionary— Fourteen stocks on premium list tell the ®tory. *
Sales, 687;4OO shares.
.. -The -market had reached that stage where a technical 'Silly was certain. The list of stocks commanding a premium in the loan crowd was the longest since the present lear market started two years ago. Little traders have heen doms nothing but sell'stocks short for the past two weeks' The rally that started before the end of the first hour.was the best in the last three months and caused an upturn running all the way from 2 points to more than 5 points.	-
; .Before the close some of the big bear operators, who are still heavily short of stocks made another drive on ^prices but accomplished little. There was nothing in the way of actual news to affect prices. Technical conditions will probably govern the market’s course for the next few weeks.
Short Coverning Follows Opening
. While opening prices 'were little changed from Thursday’s close, some big short covering developed within a few minutes and caused advances within ten minutes -running all the way from a point to five points in the speculative leaders. Crucible Steel was a feature, opening .at'51, up %, and then jumping to 55. There were no sales between 52 and 55. U. S. Rubber got up to 44, a recovery of nearly 2 points from the week’s low, while Studebaker at 68%, showed a recovery of 4 points.
Even the rails responded to the general covering movement and Northern Pacific made an early high at 72. Mexican Petroleum, which furnished the feature of Thurs-day’s-market, got up to 92*4, a net advance of 1% points. The equipment shares also advanced easily.
Premium Stocks
Long List of
The sharp advance of
the first hour caught a lot of stop orders placed slightly above Thursday’s close by the so-called “smaller fry” who have been selling stocks short for the paist month. This really accounted for the rapidity of the advance. A direct tip-off on the market’s technical position was furnished by the large number of stocks loaning at a premium at the previous close.
In fact this list of premium stocks, according to old Wall Street traders, was the longest within their memory. Thirteen stocks of the usually active character were loaning at premiums, ranging all the way from 1-64% to %%. These included Crucible Steel %%, American Car & Epundry 1-64%, General Electric %%, Western Union ^16%. Virginia Carolina preferred 1-64%, Sears-Roebuck 1-16%, United Fruit %%, Pullman *.-»%, Am. Sum. 1-32%, Pierce-Arrow preferred 1-32%, Cuba Cane preferred 1-16% and Central Leather preferred 1-32%, United Drug 1-32. In addition Railway Steel Spring, International Harvester and American Sugar were all loaning flat.
,	Central Leather Advances
Central Leather sold at 24%, up 2 net. Recovery was helped by Dow, Jones & Co.’s analysis, showing there were growing indications company’s affairs had definitely turned for better. Though there is no indication that Central Leather is aboufto enter a period of phenomenal prosperity, company’s position is such that it can withstand further stagnation in the industry without serious loss. Company’s bank loans remain at $8,500,000, but its cash position is comfortable, and it has been able to reduce its inventories and cut its operating losses to a point "which marks the passing of the crisis. Domestic business is only 60% normal, and there is no foreign business to speak of. There is a shortage of leather abroad, and substantial orders are expected from this quarter as soon as business revives. •
Famous Players on Premium List '
Famous Players was put on the premium list for the first time, starting at 1-16%, after which the rate was raised to %%. It was stated by Dow, Jones & Co. on Thurs’day that a well known up-town operator has been fighting the advance in this stock. Before noon yesterday it.got above 57.	•
.	Heavy Selling of U. S. Rubber
As compared with the strength in most parts of the list, heavy selling came into U. S. Rubber and both common and preferred made new low prices for the year, the former at 42 and the preferred at 80. It had been expected that U. S. Rubber’s financial statement covering operations for the first half of^ the year would be made public this week, but the announcement -has been laid over until the early part of next week.
.	Mexican Petroleum
>	Punishing the Bears
| The bear rumors which have permeated Wall Street for the past month and which culminated Thursday in the false report about the deferring of dividend by the Mexican Petroleum Co. have aroused the constructive element in the Street; and it is reported that' large financial interests have combined to force the prominent shorts to cover their lines and also'to give warning that the campaign of untruth has been carried beyond bearable limits.
|	Market Continues Upward Swing -
!' Most of the'active stocks-'got into new high ground - during the third hour. U. S. Steel common touched 74%, while Studebaker got up to 69%. Famous Players continued to lead the specialties with sales at 58%. On the other hand American Smelting preferred made a new low of 63%, which is a Tecord low since the organization of the company. U. S. Rubber 8% preferred sold below 80.
|	Favorbale Bank Statement Expected
i The renewal rate of 5% for call money seems to foreshadow a favorable bank statement today. The statement of the Federal Reserve system showing further gains in reserve was favorably received by the Street. The consensus is that the banks of the country are in a' very strong position from the viewpoint of available cash and will experience no difficulty in handling an increased volume of business.
I
Calling Mexican Petroleum Stock
Certain houses lending Mexican Petroleum called the stock Friday morning. The explanation given by one house was that if the Stock Exchange investigation revealed a large short interest with not much -over 100,000 shares outstanding, publication of the fact might make it difficult to get its stock back. It is hoped that the investigation will clear up the whole Mexican Petroleum matter, particularly the claim that outstanding stock is as small as stated by officials of the company.
'	Late Drive on Motors and Rubbers
Bear operators, frightened by the ease with which prices had advanced during the morning, made another drive at the market shortly before 2 o’clock, centering their attack on the rubber and motor^shares. TJ. S. Rubber common made a new low at 41. There was an extremely thin market |n the preferred stock which sold off 7 points to 75. This stock is now down nearly 30 points from the high of the year. Despite the reaction in the U. S. Rubber issues it was stated in one quarter that the report for the first half-year will not be nearly as bad as most of the predictions of a few days ago, although it is acknowledged there will be a deficit for the period.
Support was in evidence in Sinclair Oil for the first time since the stock broke 20. While earnings for the first seven months of the year have not been published it is known there was a large surplus after depreciation and taxes. The company will close the year with a substantial surplus available for the common, due largely to returns from its refineries.	•
The fact that International Paper as buying print paper from its competitors to supply the wants of its customers, indicates that surplus stocks have been exhausted. Plants of the company are rapidly resuming operations, and as a result of the working off of surplus stocks International Paper is in a much stronger cash position than at the beginning of the year.
American Woolen Gets Above 70
Many stocks made new highs for the day during the last half hour of trading. Famous Players got above 60. and American Woolen above 70. In fact, these two stocks were the real features of ,the market. Mexican Petroleum reached 95*4, and the other oils picked up a point or more from the highs, up to two o'clock. U. S. Steel common made a new high for the day at 74%. Much of the buying during the last half hour was for uptown brokerage houses.
; Recent attempts to depress the shares of the Doheny companies add nothing to constructive stock market operations. -More than 76% of Mexican Petroleum has been exchanged for Pan-American. Yet it is the most active stock on tAe list. On Thursday 68,000 shares of Mexican Petroleum changed, hands on.th-_ Stodk Exchange, .while the Consolidated reported 114,000 shares, a Total of 182,000 shares, a figure almost double the_stock outstanding. .An investigation covering the actual amount of Mexican >Petroleum available for trading would be more desirable than fruitless efforts to uncover the source of bear propaganda.
Equipment Issues Strong
The strong cash position of'Railway Steel Spring also gives one a good idea of the strength of American Locomo-time, Baldwin and American Car & .Foundry. These Companies have cut inventories to the bone and as a result of large cash .holdings are heavy lenders of money. The position of Railway Steel Spring is reflected in the .fact that Hn six years it ;has added to working capital and retired .'bonds to the extent of $16,628,000, equal to $125 a share on the common, and today its accounts payable are u nder $100,000. It -has $9,200,000 cash treasury certificates and -Liberty bonds op hand, equal to ^nearly $75 a share onthe common. Interest at 6% on/cash and investment securitieq-pn ihand would equal:$<XO_annually a share on Hs.^U^M!90comjnpn	.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.