THE STOCK MARKET: A SHARP REACTION Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jan 4, 1922;
A SHARP REACTION
Big market operators raid list and cause sonic severe ‘reactions in tlie oils, steels and equipments—Kelly-Springfield breaks nearly 'seven points following the passing of stock dividend—-Several bear factors including .cut in crude oil prices in the Penn-sylvmiia field——Rails hold up fairly wefl.
‘	.	Sales, 9!>(i,200 shares.
After a firm opening the whole list turned weak witli the oils, equipments and rubber shares leading the decline.-Stock market operators were inclined to raid the list on u number of factors including (1) the large amount of-selling likely to come into the market by people who did not wish to take their profits in 1921 for tax reasons; (2) cut in crude oil prices in the Pennsylvania field with the possibility of cuts elsewhere; (3) taking over of two big Chicago banks by the Continental & Commercial National Bank and the Continental & Commercial Trust & Savings Bank; (4) statement of President Campbell of the Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. that lie docs not believe 1922 will be a profitable year for the steel industry. Those bearish argued that these factors overshadowed the report of tfin Federal Reserve Board that -it finds a continued upward movement of business and gradual restoration of normal conditions throughout the country and the statement or ’ improvement in business of Comptroller of the Currency Crissingcr.
The break in ..many stocks was violent. Studebaker which made a new high on the movement shortly after the opening, broke over 4 points, Kelly-Springfield more than 6 points, Baldwin nearly 4, American Locomotive 4, Steel common 2, Sinclair 2, Mexican Petroleum nearly 5, Railway ■Steel Spring 5, and so on down the list. The low prices of
leaders in the decline were the tire stocks—Kelly-Springfield breaking 38, as compared with early high of, 43%— the motors, yrith Studebaker losing all of its early gain and two points besides; equipments, and some of the steels. At 83, where Steel common sold before one o'clock, the reaction was 1’4 points front the opening. Among the equipments, American Locomotive difring this period sold down to 104*4, off over six points front last week’s high.
Profit Taking for 1922 Income Returns.
■ The general opinion in contmision houses was thut the selling also represented some profit taking by traders who did not wish to cash in ’last year. In other wor Is these people who bought stocks during the low prices of the late Summer desired to incorporate the profits tint have accrued in the returns they will file at the end of 1922. Some of the big market operators were certain that some such selling would come into the list and believed the moment right for'an old fashioned bear raid.
American Woolen.
■While American "’oolen broke 80 there was an excellent market for the stock on the way down. This stock is well regarded by those who pin their faith to the raw wool market as an index to the 1922 business outlook for the American Woolen Co. Wool has been strong of late and is hard to get. Prices have swung back 20% to 30% from the low levels. Such a development usually forecasts active goods buying. The company’s January opeiv weeks will in' T^sults of the
t	---
' the day were made during the final hour. The cotton and
ing scheduled to take place in two or three any event give an excellent idea of probable coming half year,
American Sugar common loaned early premium of 1-128%.	,
Kelly-Springfield Passes Stock Dividend.
The selling continued through the fourth hour. Of course the break in Kelly-Springfield could be attributed directly to the passing of the stock dividend. The news of this development case at a most inopportune time for the holders of the stock—in other words-at the moment when the general list was weak. There was an extremely thin market for the stock after it broke 40. Kelly-Springfield has been paying a stock dividend at the rate of 3% quarterly since May, 1919. From that time until April, 1921, quarterly cash dividends of $1 a share were also paid. With the omission of the cash dividend early, last "year directors voted to continue the stock dividend for a while at least. The common stock has a par. value of $25 so that even at yesterday’s low price it is selling at equivalent of nearly $150 for a $100 par stock. The company declared the usual quarterly dividend of $2 a share in cash on the 8% preferred stock.
.	. Bear Factors.'
a
in the day nt
grain exchanges were also weak.
Firm Opening.
Studebaker was thefeature of the market at the opening. The first sale was at 83%, marking'a new high on •; the move, after which several big blocks were taken at 81.’ , This had little effect on the other motors, however. Crucible was the leader of the independent steel shares, opening up 1% points at 67*4. In fact all of the steel group ’ acted well during the first few minutes of trading with ‘ Steel common at 84’4 and Bethlehem Steel "B” close to 5S.
Sugar stocks, which had a sharp advance on Saturday, held all of this gain. While the first sale of Mexican Pe; troleum was off % at 113 most of this loss was quickly t“Covered. There was little change in the other oils. Rails ere fractionally higher.
jifcl' . Steelh Turn Heavy During First Hour.
the -exception of Studebaker and .American ■Woolen the general list accomplished little during the first hour. The pool in Studebaker ran the stock up. to 84% without,any trouble and American Woolen rallied above 81. Steels turned heavy and U. S. Steel common sold off nearly a point.
Railway Steel Spring Makes New High.
Railway Steel Spring made a new high on this move at 99% which ^Iso topped the best price of 1921. '-The stock-then reacted over two points. In other words, Railway Steel Spring has made good the predictions of early last' week that it would cross Baldwin. This is one of the oldest of the industrial companies and has only 130,000 shares of common stock outstanding. Stock carried by brokerage houses is ver? small and manipulation is made easy as a result.
Outright Purchases Last Four Months Unusually Large.
So far as brokerage houses are concerned they start the. new year under favorable conditions. While the market has been -advancing since August, loans of brokers show a comparatively small increase. Many, in fact, are large lenders of money. There has been more buying for cash over the last four months than ip any similar period in.years and margins have been well maintained. The public has not followed up the advance in a speculative way, but outright purchases of stocks, bonds and notes have been unusually large.
'	Specialties Strong Early in Session.
The market continued dull into the second hour. Studebaker.and American Woolen held all of their early .gains, but.traders were inclined to look to the specialties for any turn they hoped to make. Coca-Cola was the leader and made a new high on the move close to 44.
Quarterly Reports to Appear Soon.
' Quarterly reports of the industrial companies will make their appearance this month. Many branches of .industry will show an improvement in the last quarter of 1921 compared with the preceding quarter, but no big gains are expected. It is believed the current quarter will , show an improvement in earnings over the last quarter of 1921, but no substantial gains are looked for before the second quarter of 1922. If there is to be a big improvement in business in the Spring, the stock market, if frue to-tradition, will discount it several months in advance.	-
•	The 1922 forecasts of bankers, brokers, manufactur-
■ ers and business men in general can be summed up as fol-lows: “The year 1922 will be a period of recovery, but the recovery will be slow and substantial. Prices of bonds and securities of value will show an upward tendency.”
Exports May Show Pronounced Increase This Year.
_ American producers sold abroad nearly $5,000,000,600 worth’of goods in 1921, and the trade balance was around $2,500,000,000. This in the face of gloomy forebodings relative to financial conditions in Europe. _. If business in’ .Europe shows a gradual recovery, exports from the ‘United States may show a pronounced increase this year. There is little danger of the trade balance switching to the other side, and a recovery of exchange to normal cannot be looked for for a long time to come.
•	. Tire Stocks Lead General Decline.
The list was subjectedto a real bear raid during the third hour, and the catching of some stop loss orders soon gave the whole market a weak appearance. The
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
t
Among the issues that held up well during the .selling were Midvale Steel, American Ice which failed to break 80, most of the Whelan tobacco shares and some of the coppers. The cutting of crude oil prices in the Pennsylvania field was a bearish factor on the whole oil list and Mexican Petroleum broke 110 while Royal Dutch sold below 50. Sinclair sold below 20. Traders bearish on the market also professed to see further trouble as a result of the situation which necessitated tho taking over of two of Chicago’s big banks.	'
Midvale Steel.
One of the reasons that Midvale held up during ti e general selling is found in the p'rogress that is being made toward a merger of the various independent steel companies. It is claimed that Midvale has been selling out of line with other independents. Midvale will lead the merger. Its production is almost double that of either Republic or Lackawanna, and its working capital on the first of last year was around $88,000,000, compared with about $50,000,009 working capital for Republic and .Lackawanna combined. At the beginning of last year Midvale had close to $35,000,000 cash and investment securities.
Some New Lows Just Before Close	’
The market closed weak. Many issues made new lows for the day during the last 15 minutes of trading. Standard Oil of N. .1. sold down to 5-71, off over 21 points from ard Oil of N. .1. sold down to 173, off nearly 20 points from the recent high. At. 80% Studebaker was off over 4 points from the high of the day. Steel common sold at 82% compared with a recent high of 85. Lima Locomotive which rallied above 101 a few days ago, reacted 10 points to 91. Some big blocks of Baldwin appeared under 95. The bad big blocks of Baldwin appeared as low as 95. The bad break in Kelly-Springfield hurt, the whole rubber group. Oils showed no rallying power. Call money after renewing at 5’4% got down to.5%, but this failed to help the market.