THE STOCK MARKET: Bears Are Trapped; Sudden reversal of form in whole ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 1, 1923;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
,.pg. 12
THE
STOCK MARKET
Bears Are Trapped
Sudden reversal of form in whole market catches recent short sellers unawares—Gains are well distributed .throughout list.
' Sales, 1,360,000 Shares
Bears ■were caught altogether unwares by two constructive developments which caused a complete reversal of form in the whole market and segt prices ahead so rapidly that recent short sellers had no opportunity to cover without substantial losses. First, the only extra dividend authorized by United States Steel since 1919, came overnight without an advance hint of any character. This development resnltad in sharp gains throughout the list in the early trading.
Then a constructive review of the current economic situation by Jesse L. Livermore made its appearance before the buoyancy engendered by the Steel melon had worn off. Mr. Livermore took issue with the pessimism prevailing in Wall Street and predicted that discreet purchasers of standard stocks at existing levels eventually would realize attractive profits.
This statement gave fresh vigor to the forward movement in progress in the general market. Shorts scrambled to cover in every section of the list and the volume of dealings was swollen to the largest aggregate seen since February when stocks were in the throes of last winter’s bullish demonstrations, o N let-up occurred in the final houh, the turnover continuing heavy and prices closing at the day’s best levels.
.	' Steel Leads Strong and Active Market
‘ Stock market’s response to unexpected extra dividend of 25 cents on Steel common and the unlooked-for earnings of over $47,000,000 in the third quarter, was a strong and active opening. Naturally, Steel was the leader with a double opening showing an overnight gain of 1% to 2% points. In the first ten minutes of trading, turnover well exceeded the 9,300 shares done all of Tuesday. The pace was rather fast with numerous issues showing gains of one to three points, Bullish developments came at a time when they could help most, for leading issues showed recessions on Tuesday. Steel common, for instance, was off 1% points yesterday. These recessions were more than recovered in today’s opening prices.
Leading Issues Hold Gains Well
Activity continued through first half hour although not in quite as heavy volume as immediately after the opening when trading was the largest in a long time. Leading issues like Steel, Studebaker, Corn Products and .Jlaldwin held their gains well, with but fractional recessions from the morning’s best prices. Others of the ly^tpials dtd not do as well and offerings were apparent in such issues as Amferlcan Woolen and Famous Players, both of which gave ground to the extent of a point from best prices at the opening.
A mixed condition was apparent soon after the first rush of the opening had subsided, oils furnishing a discord to the rather uniform advance.
Oil Stocks Reach Low Levels
By 10:30 petroleum issues were active and lower with new low prices for the year in Texas Co. and Marland Oil at 39 and 17% respectively. Producers & Refiners at 17% •was but % of-a point above the year’s low made Tuesday, while Phillips and Sinclair were under opening levels, former getting % under Tuesday’s low at 21%. Trend of. oil shares Js expected to remain downward as long as big production continues and while many shares are at attractive price levels, each reduction in crude and gasoline markets brings fresh selling. No doubt much of this is for short account and many traders are becoming wary f selling oils short which show depreciation of 60 to '4 from year's high.
Heavy Short Covering in Early Trading
At end of the first hour stock market was more impressive in its strength than at the opening. Leading issues were at the opening levels or higher in the face of what must have been a considerable amount of realizing sales. Brokerage offices reported extensive short covering in tho early trading, accounting for the rather wide openings in numerous issues, contrasted with the previous closing. Some public ,participation on the long side was reported.
Oils Improve Slightly
On the whole the list showed good tone, with the "Four Horsemen," Steel, Studebaker, Can and Baldwin, all maintaining improvements on the opening. Steel was above 89, Studebaker close to 98, and Baldwin 118.
After showing rather general weakness, oil isues rallied somewhat with Cosden regaining close to a point from the morning’s low of 22%. Texas Co. was the only one of the oils which failed to improve, getting to a new 1923 low at 38%, at which figure there were numerous transactions.
Livermore’s Statement .Gives Impetus to Advance
Considerable impetus was given to stock market activity and prices by the optimistic review of trade, industry and stock prices in which J. L. Livermore expressed the belief that stocks of good, well-managed properties had more than discounted any decline in business and at present levels offered opportunities for profit.
National Cloak & Suit Makes Gain
Prices maintained a strong tone in the early afternoon and further advances took place in many sections iof the list. Livermore’s comment on agricultural conditions helped International Harvester, which jumped over five points to 73%. Following the display of strength in other mail- order stocks National Cloak & Suit moved up 1% to 5S. It is estimated this company is enjoying sales of record proportions, which • will total $52,000,000 for 1923, pointing to earnings of between $15 and $18 a share on the common st.ock. There are but 120,000 shares of i rommon and $7,757,500 7% preferred stock with no funded ! ->bt It is expected that the stock will go on a dividend j-asis early in January.
Steel’s Extra Dividend Builds Up Confidence
Many of the largest commission houses sent out wires p the effect that the stock market had definitely turned. J statement of the Steel Corp, and the extra dividend went ?a long way toward building up confidence. It ispeedless
to say the bullish interview from Livermore will influence many traders to turn to the constructive side of the market. Wliat he said will be read closely by the public. Steel developments and the Livermore interview will no doubt result in an increased public demand for stocks.
Weakness in Texas Co. Disturbing
All departments of the market went forward with renewed vigor with but few exceptions. Even the oil stocks improved, except Texas Co., liquidation of which carried it to a new 1923 low of 38%, accompanied by rumors that the company will either reduce its dividend or float an issue of bonds or stock. Weakness of this stock is disturbing because Texas Co. has been regarded by conservative people as on a par with the best grade Standard Oil companies. The company has been paying dividends at the rate of $3 annually.
Best Prices in Closing Dealings
Prices continued to move ahead in the final hour, and the best levels of the session,were achieved in the closing dealings. Steel common reached a new high on the.cur-rent recovery at 91'4, Baldwin at 121, American Woolen at 69% and .Studebaker at 99%. Ingersoll-Rand had a spectacular upswing of 12 points to 170, mostly- on -odd-n Brake Shoe jumped nearly 2 that an extra dividend was in
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.