THE STOCK MARKET: Lower Prices Steel touches new 1923 low--Hill roads ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 28, 1923;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 12
THE
STOCK MARKET
Lower Prices
I I i
Steel touches new 1923 low—Hill roads at lowest prices in two decades—-Other Tails report good earnings, but not able to offset influence of lower prices for northwest rails— Oils under pressure.
Sales, 854,900 Shares
Following an irregular and dull opening, -fresh scll-ing in the Hill roads and heavy offering of oil shares unsettled entire list, which developed reactionary tone. With Northern Pacific and Great Northern preferred at new low prices since 1900, other rails and the industrial list sagged, Oils were offered down, adding to the unsettled conditions. Little rallying power was shown, although •for greater part of the day offerings in most stocks were light, most pressure being centered in the oils. Around 2:30 a general selling move developed, with leading stocks reacting from one to three points. Steel common touched a new 1923 low under 89. Baldwin was off 4% points, Corn Products 2 and American Can 3 points. Reading was firm but in late trading sagged to 74%, off 3% and Pan American “B” 4 points. Foreign exchange reacted, marks touching over a million to the dollar. Lead price advanced, copper was quiet, wheat firmed after early reaction, while cotton made new lows.
Fractionally Lower at Start
Market opened dull and fractionally lower. Steel . common and Bethlehem were only two important issues to show gains in early trading, up % and %, respectively, on strong second quarter earning statement by Bethlehem and official report of continued good business. Hill roads were reactionary and on little volume Northern Pacific sold down to 59%, off %. Great Northern preferred was off % at 58%.' Federal Reserve weekly statement showed gain of nearly two full points in New 1 ork district s ratio of reserves to 65.2%, less than one-half of 1% under same date last year. Sterling was unchanged, other foreign currencies fractionally lower and marks at a new low. Franco-Belgian reply on London's reparations proposal is said to be to the effect that British proposal is unsatisfactory, but seeks further negotiations. Threat of anthracite miners’ strike was unsettling.
First Half Hour Dull
Trading was extremely dull in first half hour, with further declines in Hill roads and some selling in Standard Oil of California. Latter sold down to 48%, off 1%. Most leaders held firm, compared with opening levels, American Can being up % at 91%; Studebaker, American Woolen, Corn Products and Baldwin were about unchanged. It was a listless market. Schulte Stores was a star performer, by comparison, up 2 points at 98%, and about five points in two days.
___	_	Commodities Lower
London metal market closed higher; opening quotations in cotton were under previous close, while wheat opened % cent lower, and corn and oats % of a cent.
.1. P. Morgan and the Reparations Issue
Much interest was evoked in announcement that J. P. Morgan would shortly sail for Europe on a vacation. It was recalled that about a year ago, by invitation of Reparations Commission, he acted in advisory capacity for commission's financial committee, which was seeking a plan to help German finances. Result was the finding that time was not ripe for action, but since then Austria has successfully floated an international loan of $125,000,000, with the house of Morgan assuming direction of domestic participation. This has gone a long way toward stabilizing Austrian finances. Incidentally, presidents and other officers of a number of leading American banks are now in Europe, and the .Street is , wondering if, with reparations paramount issue in Eu- • rope, some, attempt may be made to readjust German , finances. The mark, at over a million to the dol- • lar is ample testimony to the need for action.	i
.	S. O. of California Weak
Trading became more active around 11 o'clock, with considerable offerings of oils, resulting in those stocks sagging, while rest of the list reacted from a fraction to a point or more from earlier highs. Selling continued in the Hill roads, with Great Northern preferred down to 57% and Northern Pacific under 59. Street heard talk of liquidation in these two issues for an estate.
California oils showed reactionary’ tendency in early trading. Offerings in Standard Oil of California continued and it sold close to 47, off nearly 3 points from previous close. Other oils were offered on this display of weakness, California Petroleum common reaching 20, Pan-American B at 58, Marland at 35 and Sinclair frac-^tionally under 23.
Dividend Cuts by Oil Companies Likely
Oil industry is still unsettled by supply of crude oil which even a big consumption does not match. Crude oil held in storage is increasing with its collateral conditions of additional investments for new steel tankage and other facilities alor.g with the fact that cash is not coming in for such unsold oil. This condition is expected to make necessary considerable new financing by oil companies and the likelihood, in some instances, of such financing entailing cutting of dividend payments.
Reading Reacts
Reading's display of strength which put itjo 78 on Thursday was missing, selling down to 76%, off more then a point, when reaction got under way. The second preferred was firm at 55 and trading in both issues was much smaller than previous sessions. Consolidated Gas at 51% was decidedly firm.
Hill Stocks Lowest in Two Decades
Pressure continued on the oils and the Hill roads. Spectacle of Great Northern preferred and Northern Pacific selling to prices lower than any time in last 23 years, 56% and 58%, respectively, unnerved the rest of the list. Shortly after 12 o’clock most leaders gave ground, Steel I getting to 90, American Can at 89%, nearly two points j the morning high, Baldwin to 117% and Corn Prod- j
■ nets to 119-	,	|
. For a time in the secood;9iour there were indications| of resistance by Can, Steel and Studebaker, but continued offerings in other department "finally became effective. There was not any great pressufli' in rails outside of those S ope rating in the northwest. T||
according to earnings reports, is behind oilier sections in the matter of improved railroad earnings. .Six months statements were published for Baltimore & Ohio, Illinois: Central, Atchison and Southern Railway and they all) showed distinct improvement over last year.
While there was short selling in the Hill roads, brokerage circles reported also that some real stock was coming onto the market. Earnings of Great Northern for first five months showed profits at annua) rate of 51.20 a share, while Northern Pacific's report for same period indicate’ annual rate of $3.20 a share. Both are on $5 dividend basis, former having already declared two semiannual dividends of $2.50 a share, while latter meets for action on quarterly $1.25 disbursement in September.
Steel Common at New Low for Year
Going into the fourth hour trading was fairly active, with lead'ng stocks around the lows for the day This included Steel common under 89, a new 1923 low, Studebaker at 102%, Corn Products at 118% and Baldwin around 117.
Specialties Give Ground
Some of the specialties gave ground, American Woolen selling at 84, off 2 points from the previous closing. Famous Players was also lower and more active, selling down to 71, off 1%, following the 2-point decline on Thursday.
Good Rails Go with the Bad
Rallying power was lacking in the Hill roads, while other rails gave ground on rather moderate turnover. They were not able to work away from the depressing influence afforded by weakness in northwestern issues, despite the fact that earnings statements of railroads show clearly that a line must be drawn between railroads operating in different sections of the country. Thus, New York Central, Atchison, Reading, and roads of that type are all showing splendid gains in earnings at the same time when northwestern rails are not reflecting this improvement.
German Marks Pass Million-for-a-DoJIar Level
Nothing of importance developed in the reparations question, up to the fourth hour. Foreign exchanges were under previous close, with the mark passing the million-i for-a-dollar level.	.
j	Weak at Close
! Closing prices were at the lpws for the day, with market quite active. Steel common was off 2% points I when it sold at 88%, while Baldwin sold down 5 points from Thursday's close at 115. Other leading stocks were in supply. Atchison, ex-dividend $1.50, sold at 96%, <>' 1%. Both Atchison and Baldwin were close to their 1924
it section of^ie country, lows. Studebaker was down 3 points at 101%.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.