THE STOCK MARKET: Shorts Put to Rout Publicity given the overextended ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 4, 1923;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
.pg. -16
THE
STOCK MARKET
Shorts Put to Rout
Publicity given the overextended position of bear crowd starts covering movement in whole market—Sharp rebounds in everv section of list.
Sales, 1,110,300 Shares
: '■& Wall Street yesterday witnessed the most vigorous ‘ /mnstration seen on the side of rising prices since the ,22-23 bull market was checked last March. Alarmed by ,,the publicity given by The Wall Street Journal to the overextended character of the short interest existing in the , market, the bear party took to its heels and by late after-its retreat assumed the nature of a rout.
Sharp rebounds, running from one to six points, | ■ took'place in every section of the list. In the industrial group stocks like du Pont, Baldwin, Steel, Com Products and American Can gave tho most impressive account of themselves, while Big Four, New York Central, Baltimoro & Ohio and Southern Railway were the loaders in " , carrier group.
Initial Transactions Show Gains
Speculative confidence had been instilled by the prassive action of the market in the previous session prices displayed a strong tone in the early dealings, provcment in the economic position of tho agricultural . and -live stock interests in the middle" west was reported by. the- Kansas City Reserve Bank, which added to the feeling spreading In the financial community that business conditions were steadily getting better. Good-sized gains were scored on the initial transactions by du Pont, American Can, and other industrial leaders, while rails continued the upward movement started Tuesday. .
I . Specialties Develop Conspicuous Strength
Covering which had been set in motion by Jhc Dow-Jones survey showing that short contracts outstanding were probably nearer 2,000,000 shares than 500,000 gatli-j Bred vigor as the first hour progressed. Industrial leaders .gained additional ground on the recovery and conspicuous strength developed in a number of specialties. Confidence -regarding.the trade outlook was strengthened by C. W. Barron's optimistic interview at Battle Creek, in which he , said the country was producing and consuming as never before and that wage earners were never more prosperous. Mr. Barron said there were no indications of business depression either this year or next. ,
?	Savage Arms Continues Upward
Cluett-Peabody reached. a new high on the movement at 73. Directors meet in Troy today to act on the -common dividend and an increase in the rale to $6 would not Be surprising. Earnings have been at the rate of over $15 a share, against $12 in 1922. Savage Arms gained 3 points on top of a 2%-point rise on Tuesday. '^ThiB BtockTias stood out conspicuously in the last six ’ months. It was the Second stock on the list to make a new high for the year, thus going contrary to the general downward trend. Woolworth was the first and Davison Chemical the third. Interests identified with ' leading electrical companies have been buying Savage on knowledge that the development of Savage Arms Corp.’s , household electrical department must call for a large Amount of electrical motors. Quarterly report, due soon, is expected to make a strong showing.
Rail Issues Reach New Highs on Movement
. Industrials continued to rally in the late morning with dtt'Font displaying the greatest spirit. But this'section of the market was overshadowed by the impressive action ofrtiip Tails, which were stimulated by the hope of further _ dividend^ increases and inaugurations. Baltimore & Ohio, ” the JEnes, Wabash preferred A and other active issues rjptlred new highs on the movement while Big Four hud *-fc 9-point spurt to 104. • Post & Flagg and Prince and Whitely had important buying orders in Southern Railway
• from Wall Street’s leading banking interest.
the
inland Im-
Action on Southern Railway Common Probable
Southern Railway’s recent movement have reflected the hope of nearby action on the common dividend. .Stockholders meet in Richmond October 9, when this question probably will be thoroughly threshed out should there be any large body of holders who feel they should have some reward for their long wait. On the other hand, preferred holders, who have equal .voting rights with the common, might not wish to see their 5% non-cumulative dividends again placed in possible danger. Directors meet in New Yopk October 11. Should they consider action oil common, the views expressed at the annual meeting will be fresh in" their minds. Bullish hopes are running high. •Those conservatively inclined, however, poinfto the policy of building up the road and conserving its resources followed by the management through good years and bad. Further industrial development is looked for in the south, and'that means the necessity of furthei- capital outlays by that section’s regional system.
Baldwin Strong on Prospect of Split-Up
Insistent short covering and new buying took place in the noon dealings and stocks went into higher ground in 'the early afternoon. ’Baldwin was especially strong oti revival of reports that the company planned a stock split-up. involving an increased dividend, along the lines followe-’ by American ■ Locomotive. Baldwin begins the fourth quarter of the current year with $32,000,000 unfilled business on its books. This indicates activity for the next six months even if new orders show no increase oirer the third quarter. American and Lima Locomotive are -in a similar position. In the event of a' buying revival in the last quarter of this year, the locomotive com-panics will be able to prolong their activity well into the - second half of next year. But manufacturers are not indined to make predictions beyond the next six months. \ -Railroads are still in need of rolling stock, but future \buying will depend largely on the course of railroad learnings.	'
r '	American Beet Sugar Advances
American Beet Sugar spurted 2% points to 37, in response to estimates that the company would show better than $13 a share this year on its 150,000 common shares.’ If anything like this total is attained, dividend resumption at a $4 rate is considered a strong proba-bllity for next spring. American Beet Sugar has no , - funded debt, and has liquidated practically all of its . hank .loans. Annual Charges ahead of the common stock
consist of $300,000 dividend requirements on the $5,000,000 non-cumulative 5% preferred.
Decrease in Unfilled Steel Orders Expected ,
Since March there has been a shrinkage of about 2,000,000 tons in unfilled orders of U. S. Steel. September is expected to Show a further decrease of around 400,000 tons.- bringing the total down to around 5,000,000 tons. Considering increased capacity Steel’s unfilled orders at present are nqt many hundred thousand tons above lowest level on record. They did not get below 4,000,000 tons in the last two depressions. It is probable that if any decreases in tonnage are reported over the next few months they will be small. Stocks of steel in hands of consumers are low and a gain for the last quarter of. a year may be recorded, but this is problematical. In 1809 Steel common sold at 94% when its book value was $156 a share. Today it is selling around 87 with a book value of $265 a share. One reason is that it is paying rto more to shareholders than 14 years ago when book value was $109 a share smaller.
Best Prices in Final Dealings
Shorts exhibited growing uneasiness as the market continued to gain strength in tilt late afternoon. By the time the final dealings were reached a precipitate retreat on part of the bear crowd was in progress in every section of the list and closing prices were at the best levels of the day. Studebaker reached new high ground on the rally, at 99%, Com Products at 128, Baldwin at 120%, Steel at 89’4, du Pont at 128% and Stewart-Warnetagit 82%. Other industrial and railway favorites moviC^ip proportionately.	/	/
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.