THE STOCK MARKET: Severe Reaction Heavy selling breaks out in general ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 16, 1924;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 12	-	_.	.
THE STOCK MARKET
Severe Reaction
Heavy selling breaks out in general list, forcing substantial recessions in both railroad and industrial groups.
Sales, 1,848,300 Shares
. Uneasiness aroused by Washington developments, which had been giving Wall Street increasing concern over the last few weeks, finally found reflection in a heavy selling movement, which lasted practically throughout the session* Severe reactions from their recent highs were experienced by Steel, Baldwin, American Can, Stucle-baker and other industrial leaders, while nearly every section of the list gave ground beneath the weight of offerings.
Weakness spread to the railroad list in the aitemoon. New York Central broke below par and similar declines took place in most of the representative issues of this class. While some lightening of the pressure took place in the fourth hour, following the complete breakdown of ( Mr. Vanderlip’s testimony, the selling was resumed toward the close and the final prices were around the lows on the movement
While combined Federal Reserve ratio was slightly lower this week, the decrease was caused by a desire on part of reserve officials to increase volume of earning assets and not by an impairment of banking strength. At 80.9% ratio is now nearly 10 points above last year’s low point and it is nearly 40 points above the low of 1920. Deposits are near the absolute high record, but loans are more than $2,000,000,000 under the high point.
Heavy financing may absorb some of the surplus credit which has been created by the country’s superabundance of gold. But there is not the slightest probability that this borrowing will even remotely approach the limit of lending power. It must be remembered that these loans are largely for constructive purposes. Japan, for ; Instance, will spend an appreciable part of the proceeds of her offering for supplies. Corporation borrowing is also, in large measure, for the purpose of buying goods. Heavy borrowing simply means heavy buying, and there was never a time when the supply of credit available equaled the present volume.
Leaders Show Fractional Changes
Opening—Stocks were fairly active at the opening with price changes showing some irregularity, du Pont and General Motors both being off. Batter was down to 15, I1,- points under its recent high, probably reflection of some disappointment that an extra dividend was not declared. Leaders like Steel, Studebaker and Can show’cd but fractional chances Coppers were stronger. Anaconda up % to 40% and Cerro de Pasco % at-iS's. Independent oils showed stronger tone. Marland above 38 and Phillips at 38-%. Pan Americans were about unchanged in face official announcement that Mexican pipe line system '*is operating.
Pan American Recovers Slightly
ct.'nt.—On a fair volume, the general list developed considerable irregularity during the first hour, with various stocks fluctuating in a Tange of a point or so. Around eleven o’clock numerous issues were at the best price* to that time, including a slight recovery in the Pan American issue*. after they had dipped to within half a point of Thursday’* lows. The B sold to 42a£, 1 point above the morning’s low, while tho A sold up ’ to 451*.
Vanderlip Admit* Carrying Gos*ip
Testimony by Frank Vanderlip before the Senate committee, on his recent speech regarding tho sale of late President Harding’s paper, was heartening. The witness admitted his remarks as to a reported excessive price , being paid for the property and the accompanying insinuations were based on mere gossip, which he could not sub' stantiate-
Congoleum Scores Run-Up of 4 Points
Congoleum made a sharp run-up of nearly 4 points to 64%, where It was selling just under 260 equivalent ( for the old stock. A drop soon followed to 63’2. Tobacco 1 Prducts was in fair supply selling down a full point to 66l4 from the previous closing.
Specialties Sell Off
Du Pont continued 132, while Davison Chemical was . off 1% at 49*4. Can fluctuated between 118 and 119, while • oils retraced most of their early advance.
Break in Fisher Body
Soon—Heavy selling of stocks broke out in the late morning, causing substantial recessions in active issues. Steel common dropped to 105, against its early high of 106%, and recessions running from one to five points took place in Baldwin, Studebaker, American Can and other leaders of the recent advance. Fisher Body experienced a precipitate tumble to 189, against a high of 205 in the previous session. Nothing in the business news accounted for this outburst of general weakness. Obregon forces won a decisive victory over the rebels in the we*t, regarded as the last important engagement in that section. Organization of $10,000,000 corporation to relieve conditions in the northwest was completed. Car loadings for v.-->ek ended February 2 scored a gain of 38,610, reaching the highest total of any January or February week in railroad history. Heavy pig iron buying was reported in eastern center®, furnaces having booked 150.000 tons niti tendency of prices upward. Chicago car builders received additional largo orders with operations of steel industry increasing.
Bullish Producer Influences Metal Shares
Market for metal shares recently has been the broadest and most active experienced in months. Copper, zinc, load and other mining issues have scored substantial advances. largely on rising prices for the various products and signs of increasing consumption. Fact that one of the largest copper producers heretofore non-commital has turned very bullish on copper and is predicting higher prices had a great deal to do with the rise in metal stocks. Certain bankers interested in copper shares hold that the tendency of the good copper stocks will be upward for the next several months.
Market Develops Steadier Tone
;	2:00 p. m.—Heavy selling proceeded in the general
| list through the noon dealings and into the early afternoon
and new lows on the reaction were reached by active stocks throughout the list. Toward end of fourth hour, however, a steadier tone crept into the market as a whole, reflecting the complete breakdown of Mr. Vanderlip’s testimony. Important accumulation took advantage of the reaction in standard stocks, the buying of Steel common being particularly impressive.
Steel Betters Earnings of Independents
Steel will sell ex-dividend of $1.25 a share regular and 50 cents extra on February 27. January increase of 353,000 tons in unfilled orders of U. S. Steel was above mo*t estimate®. This gain means good earning*, although profit* of $50,000,000 as reported in the fourth quarter of 1923 are not expected in the first quarter of 1924. U. S. Steel’* earnings in the current quarter will be rel-atixely better than the independents, due to the more stable business on its books and more uniform prices. In the second and third quarters of last year tha independent companies were able to secure a large amount of premium business, which enabled them to make good showings. But so far in the current quarter there has been little, if any, premium business. With-4,79S,000 tons of business on its books good earnings for U. S. Steel are assured for some time to come.
Better Support for Tobacco Products
Close—Following the slight lifting of the pressure before 2 o’clock, the selling movement was resumed in the last hour and new lows on the reaction were reached in the final dealings. Steel common at 104 was off practically throe points from its early levels, while American Can showed a recession of more than 6 points at 113. New York Central broke below par, precipitating a general decline in the railroad list, which had held relatively better than the industrial group in the earlier hours. Following a sharp break in Tobacco Products, better support was in evidence on official knowledge that the regular dividend would be authorized at next Tuesday’s meeting.	•
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.