THE STOCK MARKET: Further Declines General list subjected to renewed ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 17, 1925;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 16
Further Declines
' General list subjected to renewed pressure following another slump in grains—New lows in most active indus-
Sales, 1.093,700 Shares .
w.,e subjected f. hea-.y selling pressure in Em.uuy's : ess.on following another severe slump in grain ...........a.,y ... tne otter.ngs which forced prices down .... >.k- h;o.l. Excnang? came ir. over western wires, in-d.-ui;;..: t tac traders whose margins had been impaired UJ me .acai; on th.. Board of Trade were resorti: g to Ilae lOvai m.,.k.'t i'or needed fund.-.
As a re.u.t, the general stock list was heavy most, of the day. New lows 0:1 th? movement were reached in General Electric. Steel, Baldwin, American Can and, in fact, practically al! lhe principal speculative issues. Call money re::.-wed at i‘., compared with a renewal rate of Vrz'r generally employed last week. Th“ensement reflected the surplus of $15,431,000, which was substituted ill Saturday's Clearing House statement for the $15,624,000 shown the week before. Hut this improvement was lost sight of in the flood of selling which the stock market had to absorb.
St. Pauls Continue I'nder Fire
One of the day's unsettling factors was the continued weakness in the St. I’au! issues, which broke to further record lows, the common at. 7’j, and the preferred at 13%. These declines were accompanied by widespread re ports that an announcement regarding tho St. I'aul situation would be made ppublic in the next few days, bat m> confirmation of these rumors was obtainable.
Norfolk & Western Actively Bought
Norfolk & Western was one of the few active stocks which showed a net gain on the day, running up 2'4 to 1^251, and closing at 131, up 'i>. This gain gave rise to talk that negotiations regarding the Pennsylvania lease were likely to be resumed, Ilallgartcn & Co. were active on the buying side.
Wabash A Responds to Dividend Prospects
Wabash preferred A at one time was up nearly a point, responding to the announcement by Dow. Jones & Co. that directors would consider placing the stock on a $5 annual dividend basis at the March 26 directors' meeting. It is regarded as much better than an even chance that a quarterly dividend of $1.25 will be declared at that time. Holders of Wabash A preferred stock Tiave been looking forward to dividends since the closing months of 1923. In view of the present bright outlook for the carriers, it seems reasonable to suppose that the management has decided to Teward the patience of its stockholders.
Cast Iron Pipe in Strong Position
Balance sheet, of U. S. Cast Iron Pipe & Foundry Co. las of December 31, last, reveals tho company's strong financial position, and will undoubtedly prove extremely satisfying to holders of this stock. The significant factor is the gain of over $5,000,000 in working capital during the year, practically all the increase being in cash. This item was $5,525,243, against, only $952,961 at the end of 1921. Current asets were $13,564,534, against current liabilities of $2,012,055, a ratio of more than six to one. In previous years lack of working capital was one of the drawbacks in the company’s progress, so that the present net of $ 1 1,500,000 means that thia disadvantage has been overcome. Another important item in the Pipe situation is the news that domestic producers underbid French pipe makers on the New York City tonnage, indicating the ability of American pipe companies to compete with foreign competition. Incidentally. U. S. Cast Iron Pipe will receive the bulk of the 7,000 tons to be used by New York.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.