Market Comment: Call Money 12% Stocks Heavily Sold on Highest Demand ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 7, 1928;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Market Comment
Call Money 12%
Stocks Heavily Sold on Highest Demand Rate Since -Tuly 2. 1920 — Rad Rreaks
Prices in the main body of stocks sold off substantially yesterday coincident with an advance in call money to 12%. the highest charge reached since July 2, 1920, on which day the rate rose to 14*;?. In February, 192U. a high of 20$? was seen, while on November 12, 1919, the rate reached 30%.
Trading; yesterday* picked up volume on the downside for the first time in many weeks. Transactions totaled
5,407.500	shares, against 4,379.200 the previous day*. Final sales were printed on the ticker at 3-57 o'clock, compared with 3.15 o’clock on Wednesday.
Yesterday’s flurry in the demand loan market was particularly disturbing to bullish sentiment because it came at a time when the Street was expecting an easier tone from the return flow oi the month-end disbursements. Large offerings of funds were attracted both from the interior and abroad by the establishment oi a 9% xe-newal charge.
But the demand proved greater than the supply, and the call rate tightened steadily until a high of 12*? was achieved at the start of the last hour. Selling m th.e main body of stocks picked up momentum simultaneously with the stiffening in money conditions until a drastic decline was in progress. Sweeping recessions took place in the principal trading issues, and the whole market was under severe presure through the afternoon.
• • •
Next to the sustained firmness in money, perhaps the most potent influence m starting liquidation in various sections of the list was the admission by Secretary MeJlon that steps taken by the Federal Reserve Board to check Continued on Cast Page
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Market Comment
Continued from Firvt Pag« speculation had proved ineffective, ‘’partly due to the activities of powerful groups of speculators, and partly to the fact that the public in general has believed and acted as if the price of securities would indefinitely advance/’
But it appears likely that the central banking authorities wil* tighten the reins by suspending open market bill purchases and forcing the banks to take up maturing issues. Such a policy will keep credit conditions m such a firm state that speculative activities will probably receive nothing- but discouragement from demand loan rates over the remainder of the year.
• • •
Packard’s further sensational advance :n the morning dealings was due largely tn buying by A. H. Caspary. a leading floor trader, who was credited with acquiring 45.000 shares. Mr. Caspary was notably successful in his recent extensive operations m Montgomery Ward. and his buying usually attracts an immediate following from other floor traders. Accumulation of Packard has also been continuing over the last several sessions for the account of two powerful investment trusts, one allied with a prominent Detroit bank, and the other with tn influential Boston institution.
• • •
While the seasonal decline from the fall traffic peak s taking place as usual this month, railroad loadings levertheless remain generally above those of this time iast year. In view of the industrial reaction of last winter, che prospect is that loadings and earnings will continue *o show increases for a majority of the carriers for some months to come. Record net earnings in the aggregate vere reported for October and the November statements .-ill again be favorable on the whole.
Railroad executives are less favorably impressed than he financial community by the current earnings exhibit, >ecause they have in mind the previous declines and the irge capital expenditures the railroads are always mak-ag. It is true that the percentage return on investment, >n whatever basis it is figured, will be little if any belter his year than in 1927. From the stock market point of -lew, however, the more significant point is that gross md net revenues turned decidedly for the better this all and that the railroads will go into 1929 with better romxse than they opened 192S.
* • •
Rate situation is admittedly unsatisfactory, with the Interstate Commerce Commission apparently unable to resist the importunities of one group of shippers after another for downward revisions and adjustments. But the time is approaching when the carriers may look hopefully to the Supreme Court for assistance m settling their nroperty values similar to that which the public utilities have already had from the same source If. in deciding the O’Fallon case some time this winter or spring, the Court expresses itself concerning lawful railroad valuation principles and methods, the carriers hope they w:U hive a more tangible basis for defending then rates than hey have ever had since regulation began.
Accumulation on a scale down proceeded in 17. S ..melting for the account of prominent Stock Exchange .nterests who expressed considerable doubt regarding the general market. However, these people feel that (J. S. Smelting has completed the correction of its position, and £, now ready to discount the prospect of SG earnings this vear.
In addition to the company’s mining and smelting operations, they point out that the stock has potential earning power from gold properties in Alaska which are just coming into production, and should produce substantial revenue over the next few years. V. S. Smelting's coal properties also constitute another possible source of earnings not now present. Company’s depletion and depreciation charges have been relatively heavy in recent fears, and properties are now believed to be in shape co justify considerable reduction in these items, making larger percentage of earnings available for dividends
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.