Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 7, 1929; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 23
Abreast of the Market
A Daily Column of Comment
Heavy liquidation came into stocks again yesterday. There was an accumulation of selling orders over the holiday which found demand limited, so that the decline started with the opening of business. Odd lot buying was again reported for investment by some of the commission houses, but it was not large enough to take care of the offerings, which increased as the three-hour session progressed. Short < overing also was in evidence, but only as stocks reached lower levels, and this buying was without effect, because the shorts wore not bidding for stocks at any tune.
The selling became heaviest toward the end. when it was evident that there was little rallying power in the market. Holders of stocks apparently became disappointed over the inability of even small recoveries to hold and threw over their long lines hurriedly. Just before the final gong some issues were slightly steadier, with Steel common rallying several points from its low of the day. The fact that this popular industrial broke through the bottom of the crash last week was responsible for part of the heavy liquidation in the third hour.
Conservative observers insisted that the market has been acting as expected. This clement ha? not been recommending the purchase of stocks, but has been urging clients to reduce long posit ions whenever possible. Some of those who were in a. weakened marginal condition were compelled to throw over................
yesterday and such necessitous forces declines. Nothing more , rallies are looked for from time
i* the popular view that such movements should be used for the purpose of lightening counts.
heavy offerings which have appeared during weak periods.
Gotham Silk Hosiery
Gotham Silk Woetew i* on* of th* low-priced stocks which has acted better than many others in its class. Paying $2.50 a share, the issue was not selling high before the crash came. There was a large block hanging over the market which now has been absorbed and which was mainly responsible for the establishment of the low point for the year. Reports «n sales and earnings which have been heard around
and earnings which have I the Street arc favorable
General Electric
manner in which the so-called “rich stocks have been thrown over xn the
The men's" past few weeks has been an unsettling influence. General Electric has been an issue to suffer from this hea^r selling, showing that important holding were liquidated because of the weaker technical position of accounts. The company is in a dominating position in its industry, and while this fact was emphasized so frequently during its sharp advance earlier m the year it is no longer mentioned around the “	’
district.	.
financial
their holdings selling always than technical to time and it
long rc-
American Smelting
Earnings of American Smelting & in the first half of this year showed an of 33 10rr over the like period of 192*, and estimates are that for the full year $10.50 a share will be shown. Earnings have increased substantially in recent years and the financial condition of the company is strong, with the bonk value as of December	-
current market price share working capital, in the metal industry
r.ot affected, a* exclusive producing concerns are. during reduced business. The ’smelting and selling charges obtained from the companies it represents contribute heavily toward earnings.
Refining increase
31, last, about 75', of and more than $40 a The company’s position is strong because it is
■balance demand
Trading
Commission houses were sellers on The moderate amount of investment represented by outright odd-lot purchases was
more than offset by the public liquidation which was rather large at times.
Professionals and floor traders sold stocks in the early dealings, they covered to have been operators.
but purchased later •u.h'-n shorts, and the buying was said larger than the selling by thc*c
Bualnea*
economists insist that fundn-cond.tions are satisfactory.
Although
business no doubt that the sharp break in stocks has had some influence toward incaution among consumers.
mental there i« already creased	.
It is the apparent tendency among users to go rlowly until there is some definite knowledge r.s to just how much hu?m*s* might affect-d m the long run bv th"* r-a-h n stock value’ Because there ha*	no over-buying cancel-
lations of orders have not been heard of m th** leading industries.
Steel
trade journal reported new past week, rs hiving beer the placing of t innage? in Flock mark’’, broke. How-t emphasizes the fact that large consuming _____ ne* have low iron and stool inventories, one of the favornb’e features of the situation Importance again is placed on the big buying by raihoads. and quite a few econom’sts put s’g-mfitanre on the heavy production in October, which was a record for
The leading Fieri business during the light, with delay in prospect before the c:.
.nCu*
of pig lr'»n that month
A View
It must be admitted that the enthusiasm which existed m the stock market earlier this year checked the possibility of selling bonds on a large scale. Many who ordinarily would have been buyers of bonds for investment either purchased common stocks with good prospects of appreciation in the principal, or took advantage of the credit conditions to lend their tunds in the call money market and obtain a much higher yield than possible with bonds
With loss optimism regarding stock* and ■ with credit conditions easy, it is probable there will bo improvement in the purchase of the high-grade investment bonds, permitting municipalities to carry out work planned some time ago tout held up because of the comparatively high cost of funds.
Another feature of the situation probably would be reflected in mortgage loans, which were difficult to make during the period of hectic stock market buying Sale of such loans would bring increased construction work in many sections of the country.
Forced liquidation
; Forced liquidation still is coming into the 1 market and the lowering of prices has not ‘ helped check such selling which has been hanging over the market. With commission houses getting their accounts up to date it has been found that debit balances of many customers , had to be reduced further. Such a supply has ' come at a time when even those who were >n , no difficulty whatever decided to reduce their ; long positions.
Railroads
The railroad situation has not been changed by conditions in the stock market, although it must be admitted that if business is affected in the coming months there may be some decrease in traffic on the carriers. However, as the rails were not generally over-exploited dur-‘ ing the great bullish enthusiasm they are in I a better technical position than most other groups.
. Some of the influences for the future are the progress which can be expected in realigning and regrouping lines into important systems: dividend increases with possible fav arable recapitalization or segregation by leading roads, and the solution of the country’s agricultural and oil difficulties which may help to increase traffic from those directions. It is ' still insisted by leading authorities that the outlook for 1930 is good for the carriers.
New Haven
Selling at only about seven times 1929 earnings, exclusive of equities. New Haven is likely to be one of the favorites in the rail group when conditions again have become normal. At the moment, there is no buying tendency in any stock, and with the purchasing power of the public so sharply reduced because of the recent market, l^ie stock has not been meeting the demand which was anticipated by those who have been active in the stock so often in the past.
American Telephone
American Telephone aJways has been regarded as the standard for all common stock investments in this country because its earnings have been showing consistent growth and the prospects are for increased business in the future. However, this stock has also suffered from forced selling from time to time as stock was thrown over by holders in their efforts to protect margins against more speculative issues. The stock recently has encountered odd-Jnt investment buying on . reactions, but this demand has not been sufficient to absorb the
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.