Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 1, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 161
Abreast of the Market
./f Daily Column of Comment
A large number of constructive developments, including increases in the regular dividend rates of various companies, as well as the lowering of the discount rate by the Bank of England, resulted in continued strength in the stock market during the three hour session yesterday. Some spectacular gains were recorded on investment buying and short covering.
The opening was unusually impressive, large blocks of the leading issues changing hands at substantial advances. A number of stocks regained all of their losses of the ffrst two days in the week since the recovery started on Wednesday. This improved conditions in the financial district materially, as many weakened account? were put into stronger shape again.
What liquidation was still necessary was accomplished at a rising market. The advances also permitted profit-taking on stock which had been purchased to support the market last Thursday and again on Monday and Tuesday, so that bankers are probably again in a position to support the market if another selling wave develops in the near future.
Naturally sentiment has been changed for the better. However, caution is still the watchword in conservative quarters. It is the popular belief that where profits have a^fcumulated in long holdings advantage should be taken to further rallies to reduce commitments and thus put accounts in stronger shape than they have been in some time.
Trading
Commission houses were unusually active again. The large volume of odd lot purchases for cash as well as for margined accounts is being commented upon in all quarters. Leading firms were again credited with buving on balance.	'
Professionals and floor traders were evening accounts for the shut down until Monda.x. i The shorts were covering actively, but some of [these operators were good sellers during the early advances, and the sales were reported to e exceeded purchases by a moderate amount.
The Buying
Investment trusts and insurance companies have been credited with purchasing stocks in recent sessions. Officials of some of these concerns are credited with the view that the decline had been much too abrupt in many of the standard dividend payers, and have been picking up these stocks steadily.
Public Participation
While there is no doubt that many outsiders were badly hurt in the decline in leading stocks, the fact remains that a large number of commission houses were getting buying orders from the public during the last two days. In most instances odd lots have been taken, with customers paying outright for their stock. This is quite important, and indicates that at least some outsiders are still confident of the future ot business and industry.
Foreign Demand
One of the large financial institutions with prominent affiliations in Europe had good buy-1*-8' orders in stocks Wednesday morning and again yesterday. This is the first time in several months that the foreign demand through this bank has been in excess of the selling. It is said the buying came from every important European country.
_	Two Factors
Two factors which were important in connection with the slowing down of the industrial pace several months ago were the sharply reduced volume of new construction and the somewhat doubtful foreign trade situation. Both these influences were traced directly to the high cost of credit, which was international in scope and checked many activities.
With money available at reasonable rates, it Is possible that there will be improvement in new construction In this country, and that conditions abroad may be improved. In fact, the foreign buying of American stocks which has been reported recently may be the first reflection of this change.
Stock Offering*
Distribution of stock dividends and the offerings of additional shares by such a large number of industrial concerns in the past year has not been helpful for the market situation. There was a substantial increase m the supply of many securities, and the absorption was not as rapid as had been anticipated. Some of the companies which had decided upon stock offerings have withdrawn them, and others are expected to do so at the request of their bankers.
Structural Steel
As pointed out by steel leaders at the meeting of the American Iron & Steel Institute a week ago. structural steel demand has been one of the most favorable features in. the steel industry this year. The type of building is tend-, ing"toward more steel, as evidenced by the placing of especially large structural tonnages in New York this year. It was in smaller building construction where the big decrease occurred in recent months.
’ Fabricating steel shops have been kept busy, even though other structural lines have fallen off. Awards of structural steel this week amounted to more than 50,000 tons, and there are numerous projects which will call for additional tonnages. With easier money existing, building should be still further stimulated in the future and structural steel makers should benefit accordingly.
"Rails
Of course, the railroads will feel any decrease in business activities which might come as a reflection of the sharp break in the stock market. However, most of the leading 'roads should do well in their net returns, because of the many economies which have been ‘practiced in the past and which can oe put into effect in coming months.
Quite a few commission houses are still strongly in favor of the rails over industrials where customers are inclined to pick up small lotsvfor cash. They point out that the carriers have never been much over-exploited in the past because pool operations have been confined mainly to industrials and public utilities. Some of the rails suffered from necessitous selling by holders who desired to protect their positions in others. This was responsible for several of the big declines recorded during the break.
American Locomotive
American Locomotive has good prospects because of the continued indications of a good demand for engines from the leading roads. There are many replacements of motive power planned for next year, which should result in large orders. Evidence of the active buying which is expected to come from the railroads is seen in the reported inquiry from the Chesapeake & Ohio for 100 engines.
*	Allied Chemical
The offerings of Allied Chemical in the past two days have been taken by important interests, according to statements from students on'
the floor. Allied Chemical has been one of the big lenders in the call money market and it is possible that some support in the stock has come from within the organization. Downward scale buying orders are reported in the issue.
Bethlehem
Bethlehem’s great difficulty has been the large additional amount of stobk which is outstanding, holders having been offered rights to subscribe for 1,400,000 shares within a period of four months. Naturally this increased tho floating supply, so that the stock responded readily when forced selling developed. Officials of Bethlehem are optimistic on the outlook, particularly as unfilled orders now are larger than they were a month or more ago. Operations are still being maintained at about 82% of capacity, which is quite high in view of the excellent record made previously this year, which was expected to be followed by a seasonal reduction.
American Telephone	•
A number of strong boxes were opened during the break in American Telephone. Most of this supply seemed to be for interests who had speculative positions in other stocks and were attempting to safeguard accounts to some extent. With this selling absorbed the stock has been acting better. Because of the good yield which has always been obtained on Telephone stock through the $9 a share annual cash dividend and various rights from time tn time, the issue has attracted odd-lot investors In larger numbers than most other Issues j»n the board.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.