GENERAL BUYING RALLIES STOCKS: ROCKEFELLER LEADS PURCHASERS EXCHAN Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 31, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
GENERAL BUYING
RALLIES STOCKS
Rockefeller Leads Purchasers—
c
Exchange Closing to
Catch Up
LARGE GAINS BY LEADERS
Exceeded in importance only by tbe cessation of the hysterical wave of selling1 securities and the general buying movement which developed Wednesday, was an unprecedented piece of news on stock market conditions from John D. Rockefeller, Sr.
From his home in Pocantico Hills, the elder Rockefeller told the world that he and bis son for some days bad been purchasing sound common stocks and were continuing to do so.
The banking group held two conferences during the day. After the first, the spokesman said the situation looked much better. Following the afternoon conference, the group’s representative at J. F. Morgan & Co. told reporters no formal statement was necessary; the day’s news spoke for itself: the hopeful attitude on Tuesday night had been justified, and there was no reason to change that opinion.
In the vernacular, this meant the ’'tape told the story.”
•'Retired” Oil King’s Statement Voluntary
Rankers regarded the statement issued by the senior Rockefeller as not only unusual, but decidedly helpful. It was a voluntary statement on the part of the "retired” oil king.
It was remarked by the spokesman that as important and as large as the support provided the market by the group may have been, ot equal importance was the outside buying induced by the banking group’s confidence in the general situation.
The change in the market’s complexion was complete. On a turnover of 10,727^300 shares, only 60*> as large as Tuesday, leading stocks were in demand from the opening.
Price advances were wide and gains well maintained to the close. Representative stocks gained from 10 to 25 points. Other inactive issues improved faster in the late trading; the ticker finished printing prices at 5:38 p. m. Bank stocks had a sharp comeback; First National moved up GOO points.
17. S. Steel Closed Up II Points
Typical gains in the big issues included 11 points in Steel, nearly ten in General Motors, one of the most active on the decline; 25 in General Electric, and 14 Ju Westinghouse, which at Ki’s at the dose Compared'with 3.00 at Tuesday’s low. So on through .the list occurred tbe sharp reversal in trend. Stocks seeking a Continued on Eighteenth Page
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
CowttMved /rom Ftrat Pagi bid Tuesday at times were bare of offerings, with. two to five-point gains between sales.
The opening quotations confirmed the better feeling prevalent among bankers late Tuesday when the belief was freely expressed that the flood of selling was meeting stubborn resistance in the form of investment buying from all quarters.
None of the wide open breaks which characterized Tuesday's sessions were in evidence. Initial transactions were in large blocks, but prices were distinctly better, improvement from closing levels ranging from one to ten points or more.
Rankers Approve Exchange Closing
This created a distinctly favorable impression in the entire financial district for it was taken as a clear indication that the hysterical selling wave had finally been checked.
With the situation appearing well under control and the tide turned. Stock Exchange authorities gave attention to the physical strau: which the man-power of that institution has been undergoing for days. With the Exchange handling the unprecedented volume of about 60,000.000 shares the past six sessions, it was decided to open .the Exchange at noon today and to close all day Friday and Saturday. Trading will be resumed at the usua ltime Monday.
This step was one which was badly needed to give the overworked forces a chance not only to catch up with the routine handling of the tremendous business volume, but to get a little rest as well.
The move by’ the Exchange authorities had the hearty approval of the banking group, their spokesman, Thomas XV. Lamont of J. P. Morgan A Co, stating that it “has only been through their unswerving determination and loyalty that at has been possible to keep the Exchange's physical machinery of trading^ and clearing in operation.”
The buying came not alone from large financial quarters in New York. AU points of the country flooded the brokerage houses with orders to buy representative stocks. Large scale buying from European countries appeared, for the first time in weeks, with cabled orders from London. Amsterdam, Pans and other points.
Trading volume again ran into large figures causing the ticker to run more than an hour behind the market. But business, large as it was, was outshadowed by Tuesday's big volume. Thus, ’n the first half hour today volume was und*r 2.000,000 shares against more than 3,250.000 shares that period Tuesday. Up tn 2 10 p. m.. volume of business at S.73S.SOO shares was more than 5.000.000 shares less than at the same time on Tuesday.
With huge business continuing, stock clearing authorities put ahead to 4 p. m. the time for delix’enes of the business handled on Tuesday. This uaj to give more time for houses to catch up with deliveries resulting from the more than 16.400,000 shares handled Tuesday.
Unquestionably the most impressive development. aside from the definite turn in market affairs, and it doubtless exercised a real influence. was tbe statement of Mr. Rockefeller, Sr., calling events on the Exchange a “destruction of values.” The statement follows:
“Believing that fundamental conditions of the country are sound and that there is nothing in the business situation to warrant the destruction of values that has taken place on the exchanges during the past week, my son and I have for some days been purchasing sound common stocks. We are continuing and will continue our purchases in substantial amounts at levels which we believe represent sound investment values.’*
'	Many Extra Dividends Coming
i It has been many years since the founder of Standard Oil has declared himself on market values. Of equal importance *s the fact that despite his advanced age Mr. Rockefeller. Sr., continues to take an active participation in business affairs.
Other evidences of confidence in the situation came from various quarters. Numerous investment trusts stated they were continuing to add stocks to their portfolios.
Further favorable developments were intimations numerous large corporations, enjoying large earnings and with big amounts of cash on hand, would declare to their shareholders m the form of extra dividends their belief in the soundness of their business. U. S. Steel and American Can, two of the large industrials, took the lead by declaring extras Tuesday.
They were followed by American Tobacco Co. and National Supply, each declaring an extra common divdend of 52, and by Bon Ami Co., which declared extras of $1 on the class A and-^O cents on class B.
Among the companies discussed as likely to pay extra dividends were General Motors and Anaconda. There was also some expectation that holders of Steel common might look forward to a split up of the shares.
One of the leading bankers of the Street with direct affiliation with many large corporations is recommending to the directors and officers of these properties that they take action and at special meetings declare extra dividends out of their large treasury balances.
Assurances have been given in several cases that the matter would be given early consideration byq presentation to the directorates.
In the opinion of this banker corporations are warranted in taking action not alone by reason of large earnings and big cash position but also as a step frankly taken to assure stockholders of the stability«of their properties.
Companies Reassure Stockholders
Another step in the nature of reassurance to stockholders is developing in the form of telegrams and messages to all shareholders from heads and directors of various companies to the effect that business conditions are stable and companies prosperous.
One such message was directed to the shareholders of First National Stores, Inc., by the board of directors to the effect that chaotic market conditions warranted the directors advising shareholders the company's financial condition is very strong, earnings larger than ever and prospects never brighter; that the quarterly statement would show $1.50 a share profits, against 92 cents the same period last year and that sales arc 40% ahead of last year.
From the oil industry K. R. Kingsbury, president of Standard Oil Co. of California, stated he knew of nothing in the present or future condition of the oil industry warranting the extraordinary depreciation in oil share prices 'Juesday. “On the contrary,” he said, “the prospect for effective conservation which will result in balancing production with demand, is brighter today than it has been at any time past/*
Frank Phillips, president of the Phillips Petroleum Co., wired shareholders as follows: “We hope our stockholders will not unnecessarily liquidate because of panicky condition of the stock market. Conditions within the industry
and this company are better than for a. long time.”
Investment Trust Buying Heavy
Buying of stocks by investment trusts and investment companies has been very heavy. Estimates of the amounts so acquired range from $350,000,000 to $500,000,000 in outright purchases. Several organizations have taken stocks in amounts between $10,000,000 and $35,000,000 with orders still in the market for additional large blocks. These orders followed the rise in prices Wednesday, purchases being made 15 and 20 points higher than similar blocks were taken on Tuesday by the same companies.
Investment trusts admit that buying is increasingly difficult as holders, converted from their fears of Tuesday, refuse to sell even on the sharp recoveries. Additional purchases of stocks to extent of $150,000,000 are looked for from investment trusts.
International Carriers, Ltd.. International Superpower Corp., and United States Electric Light A Power Shares, Inc., bought stocks today.
Goldman-Sachs Buying Securities
Waddill Catchings, president of Goldman-Sachs Trading Corp, upon his return to New York from the West, stated that general business conditions are unquestionably fundamentally sound. With respect to Goldman-Sachs Trading Corp, and affiliated companies, he stated that they have at no time borrowed more than nominal amounts, and that they at no time pursued an investment policy which made their success dependent upon market conditions. The many investment companies which have pursued & similar policy have nothing under existing conditions to disturb them, but are able, as are Goldman-Sachs Trading Corp, and affiliated companies, to take advantage of existing prices to add to their security holdings.
Buying Bank and Insurance Stocks
The American London &. Empire Corp, during the past few* days has been accumulating bank and insurance stocks, Gilbert Eliott, president of the corporation announced. In connection with this policy. Mr. Eliott said: “It is evident to all that the best classes of securities are now going from weak to strong hands and if the past means anything, those who buy now will reap substantial rewards. This is the richest country in the world, and who would have the temerity to place a limitation upon its growth in the next few years? That our great hanUR and insurance companies will grow with the country seems axiomatic. Purchasers of these securities at ruling prices may confidently anticipate not only participation m this growth, but also, participation in the recovery of prices from present low levels.”
I Capital Administration Co. went into the market Tuesday morning with $3,600,000 and bought heavily in the leading issues, continuing to buy on XX’ednesday according to Melvin XX’.
i Sawin, president. He said he was confident rising prices XX’ednesday afternoon definitely
- marked the end of the downward trend.
' “Of our total assets of more than $15,000.000 on XX’ednesday, October 3. when the first big break came, more than 30'< or approximately $5,600,000 was in cash, call loans and bonds,” he continued.
R. S. Reynolds, president of Selected In-‘ dustries. Inc., stated the corporation had been a large buyer Tuesday and XX’ednesday. Before the break in the market the corporation, had m , cash and call loans over $23,000,000.
z “The market has affored excellent opportunities to buy sound securities on an investment , basis.” Mr. Reynolds said. “The fundamentally ! strong position of the country’s industries, the ' absence of inflation in commodity prices, the , strong position of the Federal Reserve system 1 and of the banks, reflected in declining interest rates for call and time loans, justify confidence . in the future of business and security prices.”
i	Record Clearings
| Exchanges through the New York Clearing : House on Wednesday reached a new high record of $3,500,000,000, compared with a previous high record of $3,034,000,000 on January 2, 1929, and with a secondary high of $3,015,000,000 last Saturday.
Hysteria which prevailed at times Tuesday was emphasized yesterday when the White Sewing Machine Co., whose stock sold for $1 during Tuesday’s break, reported earnings for the thir“ quarter equal to $1 10 a common share.
■ Trade news was far from being pessimistic. Tbe Iron Age reported stock market liquidation had not materially disturbed sentiment in. the iron and steel trade, adding that the industry joined with leaders like C. M. Schwab and James A. Farrell in the confidence that industry is in ' a fundamentally sound condition.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.