Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 26, 1929; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 16
Abreast of the Market
The greatest liquidating movement in a long time developed in the stock market yesterday and	acute weakness, with substantial de-
clines in many issues, particularly those which had been the favorites on the long side recently. Stop loss orders were uncovered on the reaction, increasing the supply. As short covering was about the only source of demand the bears had thing.- their own way and carried their advantage along throughout the session.
A statement from Washington intimating that there was no reason for advancing rediscount rates caused a moderate amount of covering by floor traders, but was offset, so far as influence on outsiders was concerned, by the advance to 14r( m the call money rate. Al-thoug the demand for funds was not large, there appeared to have been withdrawals by out-of-town banks, so that borrowers were compelled to raise their bids to get money.
After the close many observers believed that technical conditions had been so strengthened by the liquidation and increased short interest that at least a good technical recovery’ could develop. Some of them expected such a movement today. However, the conservative observers were advising clients who still had long stocks to reduce their holdings if such a rally comes.
Trading
Commission houses were large sellers on balance. Those with out-of-town affiliations especially were sunnnlying stock*	almost
throughout the day. This supply much more than offset the light amount of buying which came from the so-called bargain hunters. These purchasers merely took stocks on a scale during the sharp decline.
Professionals and floor traders pressed stocks for sale during the forenoon. However, the lower prices late in the day presented excellent covering opportunities and many took advantage of them to take in their commitments. This covering was boliexod to have made traders buyers on balance.
Money
Average rate for call money is expected to be high during the current week, retributions of interest and dividends on April I w.H be large and corporations and banks will be making preparations to meet these obligations Naturally this is expected to curtail the amount of money available for market purposes.
With sentiment as it has been m the past week or ten days it is probable the situation in the money market and the daily rates will have considerable bearing on the market. It is certain that the situation will be watched closely by all those interested in Wall Street.
Itr-Discount Rates
Practically e\eryone is agreed that higher re-discount rates are coming, and the greatest disturbance has been due to the uncertainties as to when action is to be taken This has been hanging over the market and has been responsible for much of the liquidation in past sessions
Optimists point out that establishment of the higher re-discounts would be just recognition ol the generally firmer standard of rates for bankers’ acceptances and other open money market conditions, and quite a few insist that when this action has been taken the market will act better.
Credit a Puzzle
Leading bankers admit the credit situation is a puzzle which will require delicate handling while being untangled. They contend that unless business is to be penalized what action is taken must be gradual. As it is the known policy of the Federal Reserve authorities to avoid'any drestic influence on business condition* there has beer, no attempt by the board to force its wishes.
However, it must be admitted that fear of the unknown has been a big factor in bringing liquidation into stocks. It has resulted m checking cxccssjxe speculation in certain d.rections and has had much more influence probably than an immediate advjLnce in the re-discount rate would have had when the first warning came from the Reserve Board the first week of February.
General Motors out that this is industry and t period of compc company’s expected c orr.’.ng
on the rc.u‘.i"ns They point the Jcad.ng organization in the herefore w ill come through a ion without G.fficulty. The
expans.on into f >rc*gn territory :s to add materially to earnings m the years.
A New Condition
At the moment a new condition exists in the stock market. In the past, buying suggestions from speculative quarters have made good with sharp advances. Recently these suggestions have not brought profits to those who followed them and as a result the so-called information which can be heard around the Street, particularly when pools are active, has not attracted much attention from outsiders. It has been this lack of public following which has checked many of the advances which started following reactions j ecently.
The Technical Structure
It is probable the reactionary trend recently has materially strengthened the technical market structure. Many weak longs have been eliminated through the selling which has been forced as stop limits were uncovered on the reaction. Theic is no doubt that many students n.re watching the technical position, but few are willing to predict definitely when a corrective icuovery should develop which will carry over for several days.
Short Interest
A substantial increase has occurred in the short interest. Many who sold their longs at moderate losses put out short lines at the same time because they became convinced that the market would work lower. Several of the large commission houses report that borrowings over the telephone have been increasing in the past few days. This is usually an accurate picture of the situation.
“On the Fence”
Many important interests who were so active in putting stocks to higher levels recently can be described now as being “on the fence” so far as their views of the market in the immediate futures are concerned. Some of them have put out short lines, while others who distributed their stocks are waiting for some definite indication from within the market as to its next important movement.
In the past it was the support from these operators which halted many of the selling waves because buying orders were in their favorites on the reactions. With this eliminated for the time being, at least, it was only logical for a number of former favorites to work downward.
Chrx slrr
of the explanat.ons for sonic of the which was noted in Chrysler a wccl. or he annual report published recently, showing more than 57 a share earned, which was in excess of estimates around Wall Street. Since the end of 192S there has been substantial improvement in the company’s production which is now running ahead of last year. A number of important interests who have been credited with a large long interest in the stock are maintaining their position on the theory that the issue will be doing much better later in the year when the results from the current heavy output are being realized in earnings
One buying ten days ago was
Continental Can
Considering the fact that Continental Can was one of the last issues to stage a sharp advance. the .ssue acted well during the reaction in the general list. The stock was under domination of a group whi< h had been active in other issues which moved ahead in recent weeks It has had the buying recommendation of several important commission houses on recessions and this attracted some outside following.
Simmons
Weakness in Simmons was due primarily to liquidation by Chicago interests who had been active in the stock recently. Outsiders in the Middle West had picked up the stock and when the loan restrictions became effective there these holders disposed of the issue. There has been no internal change in the company's affairs, so that the reaction was due entirely to market and credit conditions.
Business
Reports from authorities on wholesale and retail trade are that the spring season has started auspiciously in many branches. Many lines are more active than at this time last year, which is considered highly encouraging. Of course, to some extent retail business has been helped by the fact that the Easter season is early this year.
International Nickel
International Nickel has been a popular target for short selling recently, especially following the circulation of rumors that heavy liquidation was coming into the stock. Those who are pessimistic point out that the issue had been selling at about 50 times its 1928 earnings and therefore was far out of line general list.
On the other hand, the*bulls call to the estimates of large increases ings m the future and point out that it ing at only ten times the earnings predicted for the current year. These optimists are particularly impressed by the prospects for pany as a copper producer.
with the
attention in earn-was Sell-
the com-
General Motors
Those who are inclined to expect some Improvement in the motor group when the market again has turned are advising the purchase of
Alleghany Corp.
Alleghany Corp , the investment tion controlled by the Van Swenngens land, and credited with large holdings of Chesapeake & Ohio, ‘‘Nickel Plate.” Erie, Pere Mai-quette, New York Central, Atchison and Missouri Pacific, is looked upon by some observers as an issue which presents opportunities for some diversification by those who are inclined to believe that rails will be more in the limelight when the market again becomes settled. Several firms have ben recommending the issue on any substantial reaction,
organiza-of Cleve-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.