Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 15, 1929; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 16	■»
Abreast of the Market
A. Daily Column of Comment
I RaBjiiig tendencies developed in the stock
1 market yesterday. An accumulation of favorable developments, including the bid for 1.000.-OOO shares of Standard ot New Jersey, the pro' posal to reduce income taxes, the questionnaire on short selling, all aided in starting a recovery in the early dealings. During the remainder ot the session some of the recent popular favorites added moderately to their initial gams, and stocks which had lagged a bit m the early dealings were much firmer before the close.
Short covering was on a large scale from' the beginning of business. When it was evident that the market was showing a stronger tone, many of the selling orders which had been on the books of the specialists in various stocks were cancelled, and from then on the offerings were much smaller than recently, except when upturns were recorded- Profit-taking was encountered throughout the session, but was absorbed without much difficulty.
While there has been no change in the long range views of leading observers, it is evident that a majontv of those interested in the market expect the rally to continue further, at least during the first hour or two today, with some believing that it might be maintained right through t<» the close It is pomted out' that for the fiist time in more than a week stocks closed with good substantial advances. This strengthened some of the margined accounts. so that it was not necessary for commission houses to send call* to clients. Naturally forced liquidation will not be as prominent under such circumstances as it would have been had further losses been recorded in the leading stocks
Trading
Professionals and floor traders were purchasers on balance The short covering by this clement much more than offset profit-taking which came from those who had bought during weakness earlier m the week.
Commission houses sold on balance. Quite a number of firms urged customers to take advantage of the higher prices to lighten long accounts. and the .supply was, therefore, in excess of the new investment buying which came into several so-called key issues during the session.
Short-Term Speculation
Most commission houses are advising customers against taking a long position for quick profits or what might be termed •short-term*’ ‘peculation. It is felt that i* custonfbrs arc inclined to pick up stocks they should do so with the idea of holding for some time, and tr.cn purchase only for cash or on the most conservative margin Short-term purchases do not r;-i the market, because stocks bought are sold out immediately r»n the first rally and often rail the recovery.	,
Rank
An influence which brought considerable compulsory selling into the stock market recently was the weakness displayed in many of the bank stocks in the over-the-counter market. Selling in some of those bank stocks came from investors and was induced by the circulation of many fantastic rumors which were without foundation With the temper in Wall Street and throughout the country so nervous as to the value of stocks, the selling of bank shares f «’.lnv.‘Hg these rumors could only be considered natural.
Const ruetH r Pact or*
In pe*-in-i* like those existing recently, sight i« lost of favorable influences, but there are a number of underlying constructive factors which must eventually come in for considera-' tion. These can be enumerated as follows:
Big corporations are lending money and not borrowing it to carry heavy inventories as on 1 occasions m the past. Several of the coin, pames have eliminated funded debt to a considerable extent with money received from the sale of common stock.
Managements of tho leading industrials arc showing their confidence in the soundness of th*' business situation by *=pcc*al benefit* tn stockholders rj’hrr through ncrct«»'d regular dividends. r-.tra ca*h dirtr. out l^ns or stock d:s-bui «cmrr.’ *
Cause of the sharp drop in stock* was in th** technical condition within th** stock market itself, for fundamental industrial condition* were satisfactory, with nothing more than a seasonal let-down in sight in some line*. Numerous high-grade issues now are selling at much more favorable ratios to earning* than at any ‘other lime this year.
The Questionnaire
The questionnaire sent out by the Stock Exchange on short selling may have the effect of checking some of the attacks which have been made on stocks whenever a recovery has been t started. Reports have been heard that most of , the short selling has originated among floor .traders and the demand nf the exchange for ; detailed information on the matter is looked , on as constructive.
••Inside*’ Accumulation
I So-called inside accumulation was rumored I to have been m progress m various stocks during the sharp breaks early in the week. The bid for 3,000.000 shares of Standard Oil of New* Jersey at 50. which came into the stock late Wednesday, was looked on as confirmation of these reports. Similar buying came into other issues, but the orders were on a scale and were supplied by the forced liquidation and short selling.
The Tax Reduction
Decision of Secretary Mellon and the government authorities for a further tax reduction of $160,000,000 *s being greeted with favorable comment, not only in the financial district, but also in industrial quarters. Such a constructive step was not anticipated at this time and came as quite a. surprise. _
Ralls
When stability finally comes it is likely that the rail shares v. ill have the more natural movements. However, any spectacular covering of shorts will not affect this group as much as industrials, because most of the short selling has been confined to what were termed the "blue chip” stocks of several months ago. Naturally, those with the largest short position will lead the rallies on covering.
National Cash Register
With prospects for sales this year in the neighborhood of $60,000,000. a new high record, National Cash Register is enjoying excellent business. Earnings for the year are likely to be approximately $6 a share, compared with $5.21 in 1928. The significant feature of the company's business is the steady growth which has been experienced in foreign sales.
Continental Can
Continental Can han made rapid expansion in the past year and has diversified its activities to a considerable extent. The compny is in an essential business which has been growing with the increased consumption of canned products.
The outlook for 1930 is considered particularly bright, even if there is a let-down m business activities m some other industries, because demand for canned foods and fruits is spreading each year.
By-Products Coke
By-Products Coke recently has undertaken a large expansion program, acquiring a permanent ore supply through affiliation with, the Pickands-Mattaer interests and also several* new furnace properties. Already a large merchant pig iron factor in the Chicago area, By-Products Coke will make iron in the future* at Toledo. Erie. Pa., and Duluth.
Annual dividend rate is $1 a share on the common and should be earned nearly three times over this year. Increased earnings from tho acquisitions should result in a continuation of nearly the same rate of revenues on the larger amount of stock to be presently outstanding.
Continental Oil
Continental Oil of Delaware is on* nt the low-priced oils which has made a good record. The company has shown successive increases m earnings for each quarter of the current year. The balance sheet carries the company’s properties at a book value of	a share, which
some authorities insist is considerably under the actual investment.
Kennccott
At its low point Kcnnccott wa* showing a yield ot 10' r on the current dividend of $5 a share Among the coppers any recovery could find this stock among the outstanding leaders. There wts a smaller speculative outside following in Kcnnccott than in many other issues m this group, but the necessitous selling in the past came irtc the issue also because some interests disposed of the stock to protect long positions in others. Meanwhile, on the reaction, there was scale accumulation for the account of important interests in the company who insist that even with a smaller demand for copper metal Kennecott can make a comparatively favorable showing.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.