Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 17, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 22
Abreast of the Market
^4 Daily Column of Comment
Stocks were irregular at the beginning of the new week, reflecting the confused interpretation of the market’s recent action by leading observers. Commission house advices over the week-end were generally cautious and the public apparently was content to remain on th* side-lines. Trading during the greater part of the session was a contest between professional elements^	,	, _ ,
The volume of trading was extremely dull and the ticker frequently hesitated, waiting for transactions to catch up with the record. Price movements were periodically strong and weak as attempts to enliven the proceedings failed to carry through. On the whole, fluctuations were in a narrow range.
Failure of the market to establish a definite trend during the morning hours stimulated the bear element to launch another selling attack shortly after the noon hour and prices lost ground rapidly for a brief period. On recessions, however, there were evidences of good underlying support and as the selling movements subsided prices recovered readily. Stee and other pivotal industrials carried the burden of the attack, while the utility issues also were offered freely during the weak periods. Railroad issues continued to indicate a strong undertone. and evidences of quiet accumulation were apparent in the motor shares m anticipation of a change in the outlook for the industry -*	----became
forcing
[ Bearish pressure on the market more insistent during the late trading.
prices somewhat below their previous closing levels.
(	Market Outlook
The likely influences on the market some selling to establish losses with later attempts to anticipate reinvestment buying and a t heavier demand for securities after the first of > the year. New records in dividend and interest i disbursements will be made around January 1 , and a substantial part of these funds will seek investment shortly afterward.
A Traders’ Market
The market continues to furnish splendid opportunities for trading profits and professional* are active on both sides, changing their position frequently. Price movements have become extremely sensitive to these influences. Little stock was dislodged by the heavy selling the latter part of the week and the short account was increased considerably.
Include
Advising Caution
Some market observers believe that the prospects for renewal of a broad upward movement are poor. They point out there has been no extended period of accumulation and a large amount of the securities purchased during recent weeks was acquired for support purposes and early resale. There have been indications ■ that broad buying for investment has taken ! place and undoubtedly a large amount of the ' floating supply of many leading issues has been flowing into strong boxes. Odd lot buying has been an outstanding feature of this movement. On the other hand, whereas there were many bargains during the early part of November, a rapid recovery* since that time has removed a number of issues from the bargain counter. Resumption of large-scale speculative operations for the advance would be discouraged by powerful ^banking interests as it would endanger their constructive efforts to stabilize the market situation.
Automobile Activity
As an index of automobile activity gener-. ally following the collapse in the stock market. ; the General Motors sales figures for November show the trade operating at normal levels. Sales by dealers to users in November were 90.871 units compared with 91.410 in November a year ago. There was recession from October when retail sales were 139.319, but this development was in line with 1928 when November 1 sales declined from a total of 140,883 m October. Motor executives have been keeping close watch of the retail market and results during the past month are considered highly satisfactory.
A Christmas Present
Some street interests expect the Interstate Commerce Commission's announcement on railroad consolidation to come before Christmas. This has been behind recent accumulation of leading railroad shares. While imminence of the Commerce Commission’s plan would temporarily increase interest in the rails, a sustained advance by this group is considered improbable in view of the fact that the consolidation program would be a long drawn out procedure. Rails are still subject to the same uncertainties as industrials, centering around re-I duced business activity in the early part ol 1930, reflected In reduced car loadings.
;	Gasoline and Rubber
Little interest1 is being shown by manufacturers in the crude rubber market, with the price firm around 17 cents. Estimates of a substantial decline in motor production during 193C Indicate a proportionate reduction in original equipment business for the tire manufacturers However, a more than seasonal increase in replacement demand is anticipated during th< early months of next year to offset part of th< lessened demand from motor manufacturers.
Trade experts, furthermore, expect a larger consumption of gasoline next year. It is pointed ! out that any reduction in motor output will not ' reduce the number of cars in actual use, and I that irrespective of the total motor output there . probably will be more motor vehicles m opera! tion at the end of 1930 than at the end of 1929, 1 and consequently a greater consumption of motor fuel.
Radio Corp.
Estimates of $3.50 to $4 a share on Radio foi the fourth quarter are heard in the Street. While such estimates are considered liberal, it is understood generally that the corporation will issue a satisfactory earnings statement and that the year-end balance sheet will show substantial improvement in the corporation's fiscal position. On January 1, last, the corporation had $35,556,732 in cash and marketable securities, a total which should be increased by the end of the year, through reinvestment of earnings.
‘•Misery’s*’ Comeback
Manhattan Electrical Supply, dubbed “misery" in trading circles following its sensational market performance several years ago, has recently shown a broad recovery from the low prices on the break, based on improvement in company's operating and financial position, gamings this year are estimated at between $2 and $2.50 a share against a deficit of nearly $750,000 last year. In this connection, the first half net income was only $67,694, while by the end of the nine months net increased to $245,603 *uid the final quarter probably will exceed the total of the nine months. Company has liquidated bank indebtedness and has a current ratio of 5.5 to 14	_
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.