Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 16, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6	-- , .
Abreast of the Market
Encouraged by the rediscount rate cut and the sharp further drop in the brokers’ loans, the stock market continued its recovery yesterday. There were sharp advances in the early dealings, and many stocks improved their highs of Thursday’s rally, which was considered a good sign by those who had been hoping for a change from recent weakness in the market.
There was short covering again during the session, and this demand, coupled with some new odd-lot buying, found offerings less liberal in some stocks. Late In the session profit tak-1 ing developed from traders and others who were not willing to carry long positions over the week-end. but while moderate reactions from the day’s highs occurred in some of the leaders, the tone of the market was steady to firm.
An influence during the session was the decided ease in credit as reflected in the call and time money markets. The renewal rate on call funds was at	and the demand was so lim-
ited that it was possible to negotiate loans in outside quarters as low as 4 la'/ in some instances. Time money also was easier with re-1 ports of concessions in rates, particularly for the shorter maturities.
Sentiment after the close was naturally more cheerful than it has been in several weeks. However, conservative observers continued to 1 advise extreme caution, warning against following the stocks on the advances with buying
•	orders, and recommending that advantage be i taken on Monday of any additional upturn to
liquidate part of long accounts still being
*	carried.
|	Trading
1 Commission houses generally were sellers on ‘balance. Some of the firms reported a com' paratively good demand, but this was more than ; offset by" liquidation as the higher levels were : being established.
j Professionals and floor traders were active ' on both sides, buvmg in the early dealings and 'selling near the end. The purchases were in ' excess of sales as the short covering was quite ! heavy at times.
i	Rediscount Rate
Reduction tn 4’2'. in the rediscount rate of
, :he New York Federal Reserve Bank was quite a surprise, although bankers insisted that conditions within the money market had justified such action. It had been believed that the rate would ; be lowered early in the new year, but the 'smaller demand for credit for stock market puri poses made the cut possible at this time.
The rate is now at the lowest it has been since Julv. 1928. Masket interests contend that th.s is a defimte indication of easy money and credit conditions for some time, which should help, not only the stock market, but also outside activities, notably the building industry which has been hampered by high money in the past.
;	Brokers’ Loans
Decrease of 5*710,000,000. cr 14 5*“r in brokers* loans of the Reserve Bank was again in excess of most estimates. Loans total is now 54.172.000.000, compared with a peak of $6,804,, 000.000 established on October 4. a decrease of
52.632	000.000.
For the past four weeks there were decreases of $167,000,000, $1,096,000,000. 5656.000.000 and 5710,000,000, or a total of 52,629,000,000, equal to 38.6*^ in that short period. This showing is conclusive evidence of the heavy liquidation which has been in progress, particularly in the last three weeks.
Segregated figures show a reduction of $364,000.000 in borrowings from member bank^, a drop of $195,000,000 m loans for the account of others, and a cut of 5151,000,000 in loans for out-of-town banks. This last total is now down to $812,000,000, a new lew record.
'	Reserve Ratios
, The resen-e ra’io of the New York Federal Reserve Bank increased during the past week to 78 7' r. compared with 75	a week ago and
72.3'r last year. Boston dropped to 82 1'r,
1 against 85.6* r la*t week and 70.9'r a year ago. while Chicago was down to 6S.8rr. contrasted with 76 3'c xn the preceding week and 75.5'r in 1928. The system was at 69 5';. against 69 8'o last week and 67.4 r'r a year ago.
!	The Tax Reduction
1 The plan to reduce income taxes is an oat-j standing factor at the moment There is <_on-’ fidence that the proposal will be carried out because leaders of both major political parties , are credited with favoring action to be effective ; on incomes of individuals and corporations for the current year. Officials of leading corpora-I lions of the country have strongly commended ' this plan and it is also looked ou with favor by the wage earner, large and small.
Establishing Ixisse*
Quite some selling is reijorted to have been accomplished recently for the purpose of establishing losses on incomes for the current year. This is a natural development. Some houses ieport that customers who took such losses reinvested their funds in other securities in the same industry because the law does not allow the replacement of the same stocks for 30 days.
Short Covering
Short covering has been on a rather large scale in the past two days. It has been responsible for some of the good advances recorded in the leaders, which had been the targets for attacks by the bear contingent whenever'the market had shown a sign of moving ahead eailier in the week. There is still a good sized short interest, however, because outside selling lor short account had become more popular as lower prices were being established. Conservative observers early this week advised against taking a short position, but in many instances their .views*were not followed by customers who were out of the market and who desired to have commitments on the short side.
*	Business
The one question in practically every mind is to what extent business and industrial conditions will be affected by the recent sharp break in securities. Many who are in a position to purchase stocks for cash have not done so because of a desire to see clearly just how much of a falling off will develop. It will take some rim* before this evidence is at hand. Reports on business will be market factors from time to time in the coming months.
New Haven	'
Although rail averages were going down steadily recently it is notable that New Haven held above its low for the year. Its action has been attracting attention and many insist that New Haven should be among the leaders when the rail group has definitely reversed its trend. Scale buying has been reported in the stock on several occasions in the past two weeks for the account of important interests.
Atchison
At its low Atchison was down more than 100 points from the peak of earlier in the year.
The stock, like others, had suffered severely from forced liquidation, not only of speculative accounts, but also from investment holders who opened strong boxes to liquidate holdings and provide additional margins for their accounts in brokerage offices. Atchison's position, in tne railroad field has not been changed and leading authorities are confident of the outlook for the road.
The Steel Suits
Announcement of the settlement of the suits of Bethlehem against U. S. Steel for infringement of patents is an encouraging development. Many feared these actions would upset the stability in the steel trade and result In unsettlement. In the steel trade it had been the confident belief tLnt the actions would be adjusted amicably, but this view was not shared in outside quarters. The taking out of licenses under Bethlehem’s patents by U. S. Steel and the action of the latter in becoming a licensee of American Rolling Mill under its continuous rolling process is viewed by many as reflecting a change in the attitude of the leading steel interest toward the so-called independents.
General Motors
Declaration of the extra dividend of 30 cents a share on General Motors was taken as another indication that authorities in the automobile industry are not as pessimistic on the outlook as many in Wall Street. It can be argued that if the management of Motors did not view the prospects as satisfactory, an extxa distribution would not have been ordered at this time. General Motors was one of the stocks in which necessitous selling was particularly heavy at times recently.
Corn Products
Informed quarters behove Corn Products directors next month will declare another extra dividend. It is believed possible this extia may be as much as 75 cents a share. In June, 50 cents extra was paid. Company’s earnings are showing steady growth and the outlook is for gradual expansion of sales and revenues in the coming years. Estimates are heard that around $1.70 a share will be earned in ths current three months, compared with $1.53 In the like period last }ear.	_____ ,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.