Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 17, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 17
Abreast of the Market
si Daily Column of Comment
Pronounced weakness developed in the stock market yesterday. The decline was led by | Vnited States Steel, which was In heavy supply and had an abrupt break, particularly after the publication of the weekly review of conditions s by the leading* trade journal which emphasized the further reduction m the demand from automobile companies, additional weakness in selling prices for certain products and the sharp curtailment in the industry generally.
There were several periods of profit taking when stocks rallied moderately, but the small . upturns attracted new liquidation and additional bear pressure, and new reactions developed. Stop orders played a prominent part during the decline. For some days conservative observers have been advising followers to use stops to protect accounts and these were uncovered, adding to the supply at a time when the demand was limited.
Cali money was maintained at 7' t and was without feature. There was considerable discussion regarding brokers’ loans after the close today and many interests were inclined to dispose of stocks because of the fear that an increase in the total might bring additional selling into the market
' Sentiment has naturally been affected by the latest decline and it is difficult to find a bull in the financial district. Most interests arc strongly advising tho reduction of long positions and the continued use of stops tn safeguard ar-counts Some of the large traders are outspokenly bearish and favor selling storks on excry sign of a recovery	•
.	Trading
Commission houses sold on balance Now buying was reported during the early forenoon, but when Steel common, the popular loader showed weakness the public supply increased and became large during the late afternoon
i Professionals and floor traders attacked tho market on every moderate rally. During the afternoon this element had excellent opportunities for covering shorts on the decline and as a result the purchases exceeded earlier sales.
‘Second.!ry Reaction
While declines in the market in the past year have rarely been followed by a real secondary reaction, there is still some talR in the financial district of such a movement in the near future. It is believed that bears v» il) again attempt to depress the general list j--soon as there are indications that buying h..i-been sated. What progress will be made during such efforts will bear watching. If stockencounter real resistance on anv reaction it will bo a signal for increased confidence among those who art looking for higher prices late, on.
Margins
During the break of two weeks ago the margin calls sent out brought cons.dcrable additional money into accounts Thus customers of many bouses nave recently been in a position to bux stocks, because the rallies have again increased their available funds Such buy.ng has been m evidence at tunes, despite the warnings from conservative firms against over-trading.
Rail*
There arc many factors ponding "which could increase interest m the rails, including an expected announcement by the Interstate Com-mere Commission of a new consolidation plan, the adjustment of railroad valuations to a more literal status, the possibility of increase in freight rates both in eastern and western territory. large gross and net earnings, and prospects of favorable dividend action or other benefits for stockholders of v.Inch the Chesapeake & Ohio split-up may be the opening gun
A large nu.aber of important investment interests are now more partial to the rails than to many of the mdusttials. on the theory that the carilers have by no means discounted the probabilities of the future. This element nus been pn king up <-tandatd lai!^ on all recessions recent ly.
C’ar Eoadlngn
An unexpectedly sharp decline in car loadings was recorded for the week ended October 5. the total being I 179 047 cars, a drop of 23 061 from the preceding v.cck. which was the high record for tlie current year, and a decrease of 7.985 from lhe corresponding week of last year Because October is usually a month of heavy traffic for the carriers it has been the popular belief that loadings wuuld continue around the peak established in the final week of September.
P<«nnM lx ania
Confidence is spreading’ni the financial dis-tuct that stockholders of Pennsylvania are in , line for an increase in the cash dividend, with subscription rights for additional stock also in prospect. This has been responsible for some of the buying in the stock recently. Earnings for tlie current year are estimated at $9.50 a share or more, compared with $7.35 in 1928. and it is argued that an increase in the cash ' ' dividend would therefore be justified.	,
■	New Hih on
1 New England interests are still credited with purchasing New Haven, especially on moderate , reactions. It is asserted that there has been 1 little profit taking in the stock by important
1 interests who accumulated at much lower figures ' earlier in the year. Optimism is warranted be! cause of the steady improvement in the affairs of the road and the territory covered.	|
I	Oils	i
■	Another favorable development in the oil situation was the reduction of 48,950 barrels
, reported in daily production for the week ended October 12, daily average production being placed at 2.838,100 barrels. This is in nne with expectations of bulls on the oil group that favorable trade developments will oc reported from time to time and accounts for some of j the good buying which has been coming in the J leading issues. Thus far, public participation , in the oils has been comparatively small, be: cause outsiders liquidated their stocks some time ago and transferred their attention to other groups. Technical position of the oils is favorable and these stocks could respond easily to any sharp increase in demand.	'
V. S. Steel
Because of the upward trend in Vnited States'Steel production in recent weeks, the sharp reduction of 7% during the past week came as a surprise to many. It was believed that this was due to the desire to bring output more in line with the current demand.
There has been good buying of steel for future delivery. In addition to rail orders and inquiries the Steel Corp, and other large makers have been getting contracts from equipment makers in connection with the car orders placed. The somewhat lower prices for leading steel products is giving equipment interests favorable buying quotations.
GJHette
Reports are circulating that Gillette will soon introduce another new model of razors and a new type of blade. Tms action is expected to
kill some of the competition from the so-called •'boutleg” blades which has come through chain stores and mail order houses in recent months. This year’s earnings are being estimated at nearly $9 a' share and prospects for 1930 are considered bright.
Checker Cab
There has been persistent selling in Checker Cab at times in recent weeks, the supply coming from some of the interests who were so optimistic on the stock earlier m the year. It is probable that this pressure is based on the belief that company will encounter much more competition in the future.
Stewart Warner
While reduction in automobile output has had some effect on the business of Stewart Warner, advices from trade interests are that the importance of this factor has been overemphasized. It is pointed out that an important part of company’s income comes from other than automotive activities, and this branch j of the business has been holding up well.
j	Julius Kayser
1 Every reaction in Julius Kayser has met with I scale support. This demand has come from those who have been active in the stock on numerous occasions in the past. Fact that Gotham Hosiery recently has showed signs of increased activity and strength at times has revived discussions pf the possibility of a merger of the two companies. Such a combination would be a logical one.
Montgomery Ward
Whereas a few weeks ago the Street was unusually optimistic on Montgomery Ward and was discussing what were termed its remarkable prospects, it is now noted that there is a disposition to be more conservative in estimating earning power with particular attention being given to :he possibility that some of the, problems encountered in expansion will not be, worked out as speedily as first anticipated. Of course, this change in attitude, which has been responsible for some of the selling in the stock recently, was probably induced by the market action of the stock. It is believed that there has been an increase in the short interest in Montgomery.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.