Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 4, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 16
Abreast of the Market
.A. Daily Column of Comment
A drastic shake-out occurred in the stock market yesterday. It was evident early in the session that buying orders were being supplied readily. When stocks failed to hold even the smallest of rallies, the selling pressure from the bears increased. The result was that real liquidation developed. Stocks were thrown over hurriedly, particularly late in the session, when issues like Steel common. Montgomery Ward and other former leaders broke though their lows of early August.
There were no new developments to account for the acute weakness. Credit, as reflected by the rate for call money, was easy, with the rate down to 6* n during the afternoon. This A*as without influence. Stocks, however, were responding to many disturbing rumors which were widely circulated again. Some of the reports. which had been heard a week ego. were revived and unsettled sentiment to a considerable extent. There was also some fear that ' another big gain would toe shown m brokers loans by the Federal Reserve Bank after the ! close, and this accounted for some of the liqui-' dation m the last hour.
1 Stop orders played a prominent part during ; the session. The fading market since early September had kept many outsiders on the long , s.de. In the past few day’s stops were generally , adopted, and these were uncovered in many di} rections during the session. It was reported that outside selling was larger than it had been in any’ session since the reaction started just a month ago.
Sentiment, of course, is bearish. It is felt that there will be no incentive to buy stocks for the present. However, those who have been insisting that a sharp break was needed tn correct the technical condition thoroughly were inclined tn advise picking up the leading stocks on further declines.
Trading
For the first time m several weeks commission houses were credited with having been large sellers on balance There has been a steadyoutside supply- for some days, but volume selling ' lor public account was not reported until yestcr-day’ afternoon. Little outside buying came into stocks
Professionals and floor traders wore taking advantage of the lower levels to tenor shorts and this element bought an balance.
Short Cohering
There has been more short covering on the rallies thi« week than in previous sessions. This has not macle much of an impress.on on the short position, however, because market student’s report new short line* have been nut out when advances have been recorded.
Covering has been a factor m kccp’r.g the reactions of the past within comparatively reasonable hounds. Many observers have reported that just when it appeared as though there , would be a wave of heavy liquidation at shghtiv lower levels, a demand from the bears, who covered commitments, supplied th** support necessary* to bring a technical recovery.
A Cushion
It is poss’blc that the reported l.quid position of some of the large investment trusts may be an important factor m the market m the near future. These trusts were said to have been big sellers of stocks during early September. There xs a probability* that some may begin tc repurchase on any* further general weakness . and this demand may provide a cushion against any sharp break. This would upset the calculations of those insisting that the market needs considerably more correction before it :s ready to move ahead impressively*.
Precedent
In the past few years several of the more pro’enged readjustments or corrective movements in the market have enntmu^d for approximately 30 days The downward swing recently in effect started September 4 Thus, if precedent i^ to be followed, it would be ended shortly	»
Quite a number of chart students are watching the market closely for a sign of following this precedent. They point out that should there to** another substantial reaction in the near future it would be possible to create a ba«r for constructive operations and a new sustained advance.
Copper
Interests in the copper trade are anticipating favorable statistics for September to be published within ten days. They contend conditions m the industry* have continued favorable. The large copper companies will report excellent earnings for the current y*ear. but the results will not come up to the exaggerated predictions being made earlier when there was talk of the red metal bolding above the 20-cont level.
Kvnnecott
When copper shares come into greater favor. Kennecott should be among the leaders, for this issue is well thought of in leading banking quarters. Earnings this year are expected to be approximately’ $S a share, and because of the large cash holdings and the excellent ’'physical condition of the properties it has been argued that an increase in the dividend from $5 to $6 a share would be justified.
St. Paul
Indicated earnings of St. Taul this year aic placed at $110 a share on the common stock. Interests active in the issue on several occasions in the past point out that the outlook for larger revenues is favorable, especially’ if the Interstate Commerce Commission approves the recommended increase in freight rates in western trunk line territory*.
New Haven
Interests in New England are optimistic on prospects of New Haven. Little selling has come from this territory, except for speculative account, representing stock which was purchased on the last bulge and protected with stop orders. The come-back made by New Haven has been attracting wide attention. During periods of general strength the stock has moved ahead easily when buying appeared, indicating that offerings are limited when market conditions are fa vorable.
United Fruit
In some quarters it is contended that earnings of United Fruit for the third quarter are likely to show a definite turn for the better. It is believed possible the company has realized some revenues from its sugar business. Most earnings Ln recent years have come from, the banana trade, so that the additional source expected from sugar would be reflected readily in larger gross and net returns. There has been considerable improvement in the steamship business in waters where United Fruit operates its vessels.
Missouri Pacific
Increase jn car loadings thus far in September is certain to result in another favorable earnings statement by Missouri Pacific. Thus far this year revenues have been considerably ahead of 1928. It is estimated that more than $10 a share will be shown on the common stock, which means $16 for the preferred. For this
reason, rail authorities arc looking for further action toward paying off accumulations on the senior stock at the directors* meeting next nmnth Last year $1 50 a share was paid, leaving $49 75 in accumulations still to be taken care of
N International Business Machine*
Resistance to selling has been indicated on several occasions recently’ in International Business Machines and the stock has the buying recommendation of several houses who favor picking it up on minor set-backs. There are predictions of a substantial move later in the year, based on the good earnings and the expectation that an announcement will be made of a new tabulating machine of great promise For the first half y’ear, earnings were $5 29 a share, compared with $4 26 in the like period of 192S.
Public 1 tiliti<"»
Public utility shares seem to be coming into increased favor again. Pacific coast stocks have been well purchased during all recent recessions, with buying credited to interests prominent in the stocks during the past few months. Houses with far western connections have been among the buyers.
Follansbee
Follansbee Bros, has been showing rallying tendencies. Much of the weak long following attracted during its previous advance was eliminated on the reaction. On am earning basis f be stock is cheap, according to interests predicting nearly $10 a share this year. Third quarter results are reported to have been excellent. As $5 05 a share was shown in the first six months, the company could report aiound $9 a share for the current year even if the final three months are unfavorable. This is not indicated at present.
*	Superior Steel
Superior Steel is down sharply from its high of the year. The peak was the result of io. pool operation. Naturally many who followed the stock during its spectacular advance were compelled to sell out on the subsequent reaction as margins weie impaired. Such liquidation now is believed to have been completed.
Important interests in the company are optimistic on the outlook, due mam y to the fact that much is expected from its arrangement for the manufacture of rustless i»on. The product is said to have impressed many authorities in other industries and the prospects are for steadily increasing consumption.
Recently there has been quiet accumulation of Superior by interests prominent a the steel industry, with buying during all reactions.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.