Heavy Selling Wave: Good Scale Buying Develops After New Lows Are Shown Heavy Selling Wa Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 21, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Good Scale liuping Develops sifter JVcsc Lozes ^ire Shozcn
] A heavy selling: wave caught the market off balance shortly after the first hour of Saturday's abbreviated session and prices melted away with startling rapidity. The ticker ran minutes behind actual transactions on the floor of the Exchange, and new low levels in the movement *n many pivotal issues were recorded. Accompanying the decline, reports were circulated of financial difficulties encountered by one of the country’s large bull operators. These reports were branded as “ridiculous” by sources close to his operations, and commission houses who usually act for him have been heavy buyers of those stocks with which he is identified.
Some banking support developed shortly after the opening but retreated before the avalanche of selling orders which hit the market. Later good scale buying made its appearance and prices rallied somewhat.
• • •
Aside from a flood of unfavorable rumors, there were no tangible news developments to c	o>* Eiffhirent h Page
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Heavy Selling Wave
(Continued from F/rat PajK
Account for the weakness of the market. Trade reviews stressed the favorable condition of leading industries and Washington advices on the labor situation pointed out that while some unemployment existed in the automobile and building industries, the situation elsewhere was well maintained. The market differed little in characteristics from the performance of recent sessions. Professionals continued to hammer away at the leading pivotal issues in attempts to bring out forced selling and as in former sessions were partially successful in setting new low levels on the movement.
Bullish sentiment was not helped by publication of brokers’ loan ratio figures. This showed that on October 1 the ratio of loans to total listed stocks was 9.S2r<. the highest figure reached since the 1926 break. At present, with brokers* loans still higher than on October 1, and the value of listed stocks lower, the chances are that the ratio is over 10*“r.
Public imagination or so-called market psychology is an important influence in shaping prices and markets. A new term has now entered the financial vocabulary. It has been applied to the utilities and the airplane stocks which are now said to be selling “ex-public imagination.” It might be just as aptly applied to many other stocks and groups of stocks, or even to the entire security market. When a stock, a group of stocks or an entire market sells ‘‘ex public imagination.” it makes a difference of millions of dollars to shareholders.
G. M. P. Murphy & Co. state that the market value ot ten leading aviation companies was SSS2.315.000 at the highest reached this year. “Ex public imagination” at recent low levels, the market value was around $546 000.000, an average decline of $44,000,000 per company. The fundamentals behind the aeroplane industry have not changed. They are just as bright today as they were when stocks were selling at their high prices. At present, however, they are selling for about 14 times estimated earnings for the year, against 26 times at the high, and arc valued a. about 2’- times asset values, against about four times as«ct values at the high point, the strong, cover the amount they to still higher levels industry.
As with all other new industries, well-managed companies will re-havr gone "ex" and move with the growth oi the
the course of on this subways Baar.
: change in comments in various
With the apparent market prices, many jects are expressed i	.
Cohen & Co. have this to say about it: “When the history of the present phase of the stock , market is written, we believe it will be referred ' to as the ‘era of projected inflation.’ more fully , described as the period when enthusiasm for j future profits obscured actual earnings to an 1 excessive degree. We arc on the way towards returning to the age of reason of several j years ago when stocks had to show substantial earning power, reasonable book value, nnd dm- 1 den returns comparable to the cost of carry.” |
Sidney Loeb, of E. F. Hutton Ar Co. ap-j parcntly does not believe that the leading industrials have yet sold “ex public imagination.”, He says: “As far as second-grade and low-grade issues are concerned, the disposition to ! hold these stocks and add to them is dangerous I to a degree. We continue to feel that stocks ! should not be measured by yield, but by a com- 1 bination of financial policy, management, earn- ! ings. financial strength, prospects and rate of* growth. The great fundamental strength in the , rnaiket is the outright attractiveness of issues such as TJ. S. Steel, American Can, American Eastman Kodak, Industrial Alcohol. Air Solvents, and all the technical weakness in
s.
Telephone. National Eiscuit, Bethlehem Steel,	’
Reduction.
good rails.
the market is the fact that the public is still long a tremendous amount of stock and that if ■ large scale liquidation ever began, it would mean , an cight-million-share day of steady.selling that' would bring prices down more sharply than ever in the recent few reactions.”	!
V. S.
Commercial The great
A large short interest has been built up in leading isssues. Professional operations for the decline have concentrated m selling of these issues to break previous points of resistance. Good scale buying of the highest grade issues has been apparent during the past tw’o sessions, i setting up aggressive resistance to the selling1 pressure. In a representative list of 20 rail- ( road and industrial securities Montgomery i Ward, Sears-Roebuck. Consolidated Gas. Gen-' eral Motors and Woolworth have broken through. Other issues in this group have held 1 at levels several points above their resistance points. There is reason to believe that sub-' stantial withdrawals have been made from the \ call money market for investment in stocks considered on the bargain counter.
I
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.