Sweeping Recovery: Shorts Routed by Strong Buying on Easier Money Oils Buoyant Market Co Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 28, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Shorts Routed bit Stroup B u if inc/ on Easier Jfoiie?/—Oils Buoyant
Stocks staged an aggressive recovery yesterday under the influence of a turn for the better in the money situation. Large offerings of funds from the interior and Canada were attracted by Tuesday’s run-up in the demand rate to 20* c. Renewals were arranged at 15r'r, the highest initial charge since February 6, 1920, when the opening was 17f<. But sufficient money came into evidence to keep the market comfortable at 15*~r. and Wall Street banks had large sums in readiness in case an advance from that figure was threatened.
At the same time, easier conditions in the fundamental credit situation were reflected in a drop of of 1% in bankers' acceptances. This ’ development indicated that the recent stringency j in the bill market had been relieved, and con' iiacnce regarding the longer money outlook was ' strengthened. Improved sentiment in this respect brought strong buying into representative I stocks throughout the list, and this demand ' started an urgent covering movement in issues recently under severe pressure.
Sweeping recoveries from Tuesday’s lows took place m Radio, Steel. General Motors, Chrysler, Kcnnecott. Anaconda. Union Carbide, and other leaders. 0:1 shares engaged in an aggressive bullish demonstration, and specialties like Commercial Sohents and Wright Aeronautical ran up sensationally.
’ As might be expected, bitter criticism was leveled against the Federal Reserve authorities for permitting call money to rise to 20Cc at this • juncture. Comparison was made of the present ; strength of the national banking system with | the situation prevailing back in 1920, which was ’ the last time that demand funds were so stringent, and the conclusion was drawn that the central banking officials bad gone too far in their policy of restricting credit. Great praise was voiced of the courageous stand of Charles E. Mitchell, president of the National City Bank, in coming out flatly with the statement that his institution would not hesitate to resort to rediscounting to relieve the situation, and a
'	Continued on L^ast Pagt
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Continued from First Pape
similar attitude on part of other influential 1 lenders exercised powerful influence in furthering- the recovery on the Stock Exchange.
Oils were well bought on the expectation of decisive action by the industry m putting into force real measures of conservation which would reduce crude oil production. Steps contemplated by the industry would unquestionably stabilize the oil producing trade, and put petroleum companies on a real earnings basis. Other moves by the industry to strengthen its position dovetail with the conservation measures on production. These are the code of market practices to eliminate uneconomic methods of gasoline distribution, and the export trade association formed under the Webb Act. With the Washington administration sympathetic toward the industry’s efforts to stabilize conditions, and adopting helpful measures bv restricting drilling on government lands, and stopping issuance of
new permits, the oil trade finally appears in a ' position to correct conditions permanently. With I these activities taking on international scope, | through the presence of the head of Royal Dutch 1 and Anglo-American Oil at meetings in this country, the oil trade seems definitely headed for better times.	!
Can stocks displayed impressive strength throughout the reaction at the start of the week. Both American and Continental closed higher Tuesday notwithstanding the heavy selling movement earlier in the day. Important , accumulation proceeded in these issues on the J expectation of a prosperous year in the can-■ ning industry. Both American and Continental , Can have developed notable earning power. ' Each increased its earnings approximately 50 So last year on a 12% expansion in the pack of I the principal vegetable crops. Investors are steady buyers of the can stocks. Continental J Can’s shareholders have more than tripled in J the last four years. It now has about 10,500 1 common stockholders, 3,000 of whom were (gained after the declaration of the 100% stock 1 dividend last November. Floating supply of
the common is only about one-third of the outstanding total.
Further emphasis was given the view of improvement m the equipment field by the orders for 4,500 freight cars distributed by New York Central, to cost about $10,000,000 and the plans of Missouri Pacific to purchase equipment costing $11,900,000, as shown by the application to issue $8,925,000 of equipment trusts. All the
car builders are enjoying increased backlogs of orders and there is still considerable buying to be done by the railroads.
Locomotive builders also have brighter prospects than in years, Baldwin starting April i with a larger amount of business than on any similar date since 1926, and American Locomotive likely to earn this year considerably : more than its $8 a share dividend requirements, I compared with only $1 92 a share shown in
3928. There are many engines still under Inquiry which will develop into actual orders shortly.
Exceptionally favorable conditions continue in the steel industry, as reflected by the weekly trade reviews. They reported that stocks were practically nil and consumption was being carried ahead at a record rate, with peak produc-
tions to be reported in both pig iron and steel ingots for the first quarter of this year. It is generally agreed that the unusually high rate of steel output is actually based on consumptive needs, which is making for a strong situation and should result m continued heavy production in the second quarter.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.