Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 28, 1929; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 13
right along recently during the period of S'c call funds.
Vnder prevailing conditions, it may be expected that the bearish element •will look upon higher money sjs a stimulant for market operations for upturns by those who have been attempting to bring about a sustained rally.
'	Rediscount Rates
Wall Street is decidedly puzzled over the rediscount rate situation. Many believe tiiat if an advance had beer made the market would have acted better after the first effects upon public sentiment. With possible action still hanging over the market it is probable that many outsiders will not be inclined to enter the market on the long side for the present-
in some quarters the opinion is held that no change might be made until after the government financing and English elections arc out of the way. These interests believe that the first action toward higher rates will be taken by'the Bank of England. For that reason thev will watch closely the developments in London in the coming weeks.
Gold Imports
Sterling exchange has been around a figure which many believe to be sufficiently low to allow profitable importation of gold from England. and the fact that none ol the precious metal has been brought m thus far is causing considerable comment in financial quarters.
It is argued that the banks may have held off irom importing gold from England becaus-thev did not desire to disturb the financial situation in that country. However, it sterling goes somewhat lowct it is probable that an influx wul begin Private bankers may t-il.c the first step toward import .ng the metal
Railroads
Mat act students insist that there have been many indications of good accumulation m the standard dividend paying railroad shares recently. This buying has been rather quiet so that the stocks taken have not reflected the demand by higher quotations
’"rbu<3	the	h?.'’e vr'* "dequalely’ re-
sponded to the O Fallon decision of a wee** urn. mainly because of the liquidation *hich hat-come* into industrials and accounts :Ar",nr/ both rails and industrials have been or-’t^cted bv disposal ot the carrier stocks which did not show as much Joss ns other issues.
i When the market is ready to stage a i :s-tained advance it is considered probable tb.it the railroad shares wul attract much more attention. particularly if car loadings and turnings continue to be as favorable and enco xr.ig-ir.g ft? they have been in recent months
Motor Production
Trade publications state that the produefon of automobiles and trucks* considering the manufacturers as a whole, appears to nave
There was persistent liquidation in tlie stock market yesterday, witii the result that declines were recorded and a large of issues sold at new low levels, A supply came at the opening, representing the accumulation of orders over Sunday and from tfaen on the rallies were unusually feeble, each slight recovery being followed by a renewal of sailing and still lower levels.
Stop orders were prominent during the break. Many have been using stops to protect accounts, and as these were at Limits only moderately under Saturday's closing prices it did not require much of a decline to uncover this supply. Hurried margin selling also was in evidence. -About the only demand came from shorts, but tins was not urgent and failed to check the trend.
Call money renewed at 6*7 and held at that figure throughout the session. If conditions had been different this development probably would have resulted in some active covering
It is difficult to fiihd an optimist around the Street- As least no one is willing to urge the purchase of stocks. Interests who recently were advising accumulating leading issues on sharp reaction are now in favor of waiting until the market itself has demonstrated its ability to stage an impressive rally before taking a long position again.
Conservative observers arc stdl quite pessimistic. They believe a rally might develop :n the next two days, hut recommend that Jong holdings be reduced on such a recovery. This element also is recommend.ng the u”e of stop limits by those who find themselves heavily Jong of stocks.
Trading
Commission houses were large sellers on halancp Th*^ ■«’*»»■*> few buying orders fr^m outsiders and even the firms which were advising the purchase of certain favorite shares reported that the public is not showing any interest on the long side of the market.
Professionals and floor traders were sellers :n the early dealings, but later the sharp reactions induced short covering on a rather heavy scale. The shorts had their bids met on lhe decline and were not forced tn cover in a hurry. This element purchased on balance
Money
Following the precedents of the past few months it is considered likely that preparations for the month-end dividend and interest requirements will bring about a higher range for call money. Bankers have expressed this view
dropped somewhat below the record-brc-akmg pace of Last month. However, it is also added t hat reports from the makers ol parts ior cars indicate that the motor industry’ will nava a largo output in June, considering the season of the year. Apparently officials of the motor ca* companies are not as pessimistic -on the outlook for their industry as many of the bears in au Street.
Chrysler
In market circles it is contended that Chrysler harbors the largest short interest m the motor group. The inability of the stock to raiiv up to a week ago encouraged many traders to put out lines as hedges against long positions m other industrials. Therefore Chryslers technical position is considered strong with response through short covering likely during all periods of strength in the general market.
Several commission houses have recently »-e ported that good buying was coming into Chrysler on a scale. It is believed that this demaed represented the re-accumulation of long lines which had been sold out at higher prices earls this year.
The Sugar**
Interests in the sugar industry admit that there seems little prospect for improvement in the situation in the near future. As a result. there is no reason for accumulating the sugar stocks until conditions have changed Some switching from sugars into other stocks has been m pmgre®®.
Pullman
Many Chicago interests, usually well m-tormcd on Pullman * aftairs are cieditcd with being impressed uith the stocks at current level®. They mto.r.ta:n that the prospects nou arc bc’trr than .n a long time due to the ir-vival m equipment buy.ng.
Pullman is gett.ng revenue on a substantial scale from its car-builclmg subsidiary for the first time *n years The steady income from its operation of Pullman cars makes the issue attractive tn some First quarter net was more 'than $1.000 000 in excess of the corresponding period h year ago
Cnmmonu enlt h roucr
One of the explanations for the persistent strength m Commonweal* h pov.er recently is the acqu'-ution ot more than 40't of tne stuck by the Camnu.nucalth <fc Southern Corp. a ut.Iitv holding concern on.y rcrentA t »rmc«i Th.® has reduced the floating supp.x and mad" the iscue much more respond.ve to now rejying when it has come :n’o tne market There is no sign rd a let-dr* -n tho consistent a"'’imuiatu-i that the out c»ok for trie issue, market* isc *s ‘ i on side rt d dec d"dly faxo*-abio	’
Cc>pp<T*.
Op.mon or. the copper shares tAo-Mcrt Specula’iv interest® arc inclined *o sell the
stocks on all rallies, whereas several houses re- , port that excellent buying oevclops in tho leaders. notably Anaconda and Kennecott on ail the recessions 1* is probab'e that many importart i nterests who took advantage of the GnthU'.nsm in the copper group when tch high prices pre- • \sJe<i by taking profits, nave recently been rc-plac.ng their long line on a downward scale
Purr Oil
Pure o : among the low-priced issues ln« several friend® mainly because the issue s sd'ing at only about ter. tunes its carn.r.gs «•: lust year when $3 05 a share was reported ' The recent- inrrease m the d.v.uond to $1 50 a share gives a y.cld of around 5’ Earrings for the fiscal year ended March 21 last, were greater than those pf the proced.ng period Th** company is in an excellent position to benefit from improvement .n the oil .nciustrv
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.