Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 28, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Abreast of the Market I
A Daily Column of Comment
The large increase in brokers* loans did not give confidence to those who had doped for a continued rally in the stock market. While there was an attempt to cause advances in the early dealings, the selling pressure increased again as the session progressed. Around midday a pronounced reaction developed which carried many stocks below previous resistance levels. A later recovery on short covering- gave the market a steady tone, but before the close the pressure increased again, with further new lows for the movement in a number of stocks.
Stop loss orders played a prominent part in the decline. Many were uncovered at the lower levels, showing that the persistent liquidation of recent days finally had unsettled the confidence of outsiders who had been maintaining their long position. Margined accounts have reached a point where protection through stops apparently is essential. A large number of margin calls were sent out after the close.
Call money was maintained at 3% throughout the session and had little influence on the market because tight credit conditions were looked for at this time.
Because of the margin calls it is probable that necessitous selling will develop in today’s session. At least this is the view in leading financial quarters. Sentiment among professionals and traders is still quite bearish, the point being made that there has not yet been a sign from within the market that a turn is about to occur.
Trading
Outside selling is increasing and there has been distribution through commission houses, so that the leading firms were sellers on balance again yesterday. Only a moderate amount of public buying is coming into the market on the reactions, and this is not sufficient to change the trend.
Professionals and floor traders had excellent opportunities to cover some of their shorts during yesterday’s declines and this element bought on balance, although there was evidence of new selling by the bears on all moderate rallies.
Brokers* Loans
Wall Street did not anticipate so large an increase as the 5192,000,000, or 2.9%, reported in brokers’ loans by the Federal Reserve Bank. While it was believed that because of investment trust and other financing another gain would be shown, no one looked for more than $100,000,000. The figures did not reflect the heavy liquidation which came into the market Wednesday, because they are compiled as of the close of business Tuesday.
There were decreases in the loans for local banks and for out-of-town institutions of $22,000,000 and $21,000,000, respectively, while the borrowings from “others,” which include the big corporations and wealthy individuals, increased $234,000,000. This shows that the high rates ruling for call money had attracted additional funds from sources outside the banks.
Resrr^c Ratio*;
There was no change in the Federal Reserve ratio of the combined system during the past week, the figure being maintained at 73 8%. At this time last year it was at 68.5%. The New York bank reported 75.9%, compared with 76% a week ago and 67.4% in 1928. At Chicago the ratio went up to 82.3%. against SO.7% in the preceding week and 77.9% a year ago. Boston reported a decrease, the latest figure being 7S.7%. contrasted with 81.1% last week and 80% last year.
Secondary Reaction
Much talk is heard of what the Street is inclined to term a secondary reaction, and this has been responsible for keeping down outside buying even when the market reacted to levels /Which appeared quite attractive for certain of the leading stocks.
There is no doubt sentiment has been upset by action of the market recently, and quite a few observers are holding to the view that it would have been better for the entire structure if stocks had not rallied so abruptly after recent declines.	"
While margin calls were sent out following the reactions, there was not as much forced selling as many anticipated, mainly because the recoveries gave weak longs another temporary lease of life and permitted them to hold their stocks.
Baltimore & Ohio
Investment houses are calling attention to the fact that a number of so-called good railroad stocks are selling at reasonable levels. Particular importance is attached to Baltimore & Ohio, which is obtainable at levels v/hich give a return of well over 5%. Important holders of the stock are said to have maintained their long position.
Anchor Cap
Important developments are pending in Anchor Cap. according to Information circulated in the financial district. The stock has been one of the best acting during recent irregular, weak periods, because there has been rather good scale buying on moderate recessions. There have been various rumors on the issue, all of which lack confirmation, but it is significant no denials have been made. Anchor has reached new high territory and chart students consider this highly encouraging.
Young Spring
Young Spring & Wire has met better buying in the past day or two, evidently from interests recognizing the high earning power of the company. During the first six months this year $4.61 a share was earned on the 330,000 shares outstanding. Last July directors decided to increase the common stock to 1,000,000 shares and a stock dividend of 25% was paid August 15. It is felt in Wall Street that the directors increased the stock sufficiently to permit of future stock distributions when conditions warrant.
Central Alloy Steel
Increased earnings should come to Central Alloy Steel because of completion of the largest nitrating furnace in the world at its Canton works. There has been excellent support in the issue during recent weakness.
Eastman Kodak
With subscription rights expiring, Eastman Kodak will be xelteved of some of the pressure always in evidence when rights are out on a stock. Proceeds from the sale of additional stock, amounting to $30,000,000, will cover an outlay of between $15,000,000 and $20,000,000 on film plants in Rochester and cellulose acetate plants in Tennessee and leave substantial funds for new projects. Thus, expansion of the organization is being continued. _	a
Southern California Edison
Southern California Edison should be one of the attractions among the utilities. In addition to merger prospects, contract with one of the large oil companies for test drilling on part of Lho Southern California’s 18,000 acres east of 1 rerno ait.rr.ct3 interest to the stock. Pacific
Coast scale buying has been reported in the issue.
National Dairy Products
Earnings of National Dairy Products have shown increase and in the first half of this year showed a gain of 17.1% as compared with the like period of 1928. In addition to its pre-eminent position in the ice cream industry. National Dairy ranks as one of the leading distributors of milk and other dairy products. Its expansion program has been carried on steadily in recent years, being financed in most instances by stock issues. However, acquisitions have been made on a conservative basis.
Westinghouse Electric
Westinghouse Electric has declined sharply from its high of the current year, and its action has been disturbing to many who paid high prices for the issue. In some quarters it is asserted that a rather large block of stock which was hanging over the market was forced into liquidation, a fact which would account for the easiness even before the general market weakened.
Pullman
Private advices from Chicago have been, mentioning the possibility of special developments in Pullman. However, nothing is known locally of any pending action. Those who have been most active in the stock insist the solid background of the company is the most important influence. Next report of the company is expected to include earnings from orders tor railroad equipment taken months ago and delivered recently.
Plants of the company are said to be running at capacity. As all leading equipment makers are optimistic on the business prospects for next year, and as there are already signs of some new buying of cars, outlook is considered quite satisfactory.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.