STOCKS STEADY AFTER DECLINE: BANKERS STATE SUPPORT ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 30, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
STOCKS STEADY AFTER DECLINE
Bankers State Support Continues—Spokesman Expresses View Hysteria Is Passing
RECORD TRADING VOLUME
The stock market passed through its record day of business on Tuesday with the general level of prices reaching new. lows. There were signs of support buying, however, as well as investor purchases'having some effect on checking the widespread break.
Large banking group which has been working to stabilize market conditions since the break last Thursday was again an active factor in the situation.
It held two sessions, one early in the day and the other after the close. Following the second meeting, a partner of J. P. Morgan & Co., acting as spokesman for the group, officially stated that the group had been supporting and would continue in a cooperative way to support the market and had not been a seller of stocks. This banker took occasion again to note that the group was not seeking to put stocks up but to help out a situation where hysteria was reigning.
Richard Whitney, vice president of New York Stock Exchange, issued the following statement: “The meeting of the board of governors of the New York Stock Exchange considered carefully the present situation, but felt no action was necessary and adjourned to its regular meeting Wednesday afternoon.
More Hopeful About Conditions
There was no doubt that the banking group felt much more hopeful about conditions. Discussing the situation following the afternoon meeting, the spokesman pointed out that a canvass of the situation indicated that the hysteria of the past few days seemed to be passing and the public gradually coming to its senses. That, he added, was the concensus the banking group obtained in its survey of the Street after the day’s session.
This more sensible state of mind, he pointed out. was shown by the fact that a very considerable amount of first class investment buying was in the market Tuesday: further, that a number of corporations were known to be buy-era of stocks on a considerable scale for their employe stock ownership and similar funds. Continued on Fifteenth Page
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
ternational Telephone convertibles 11 points from early lows.	.
Only One Suspension	'
The Stock Clearing Corp, was again able after ail night of work to put through the more than 9.000.000 shares of business done on the Exchange Monday.
Much favorable comment was caused by the fact that only one suspension, involving a smal* house not a member of the New York Stock Exchange. had developed out 'of the most hectic series of declining market sessions ever seen.
Because of th*1 stupendous business done, the volume to 2:10 p m. of 13,838,000 shares exceeding the record business done m all of the big turnover last Thursday, both the Stock Exchange and the Curb Exchange extended time for deliveries from 2:15 p. m. to 3 p. m. This was to give brokerage houses more time to make physical deliveries represented by the huge business done the previous day.
The Curb Exchange again furnished a striking case of a price break when Transimcrica Corp, opened on a huge turnover at 20 M., off 42’2 points.
Believes End of Decline at Hand
One of the leading New York bankers who is in the group which is seeking to stabilize i market conditions expressed the view that ' stock prices in many instances had reached ( levels where adequate support would be attract- I ed and that Tuesday’s session had probably seen the last violent declines in most cases.	i
Another member of the group of bankers ' stated he was strongly urging the various in-tercsts with which be is associated, such as banks, insurance companies and investment trusts, to purchase stocks. He added that he knew of a great deal of investment buying which is going on from those sources and that he regards stocks purchased at current prices as representing real bargains. In his opinion he said, the market condition appeared to be getting better in hand and he believed that it was not far from a turn.
In response to queries as to the business outlook, Walter S. Gifford, president of American Telephone & Telegraph Co., says
"The business prospects of the Bell Telephone System are as good as they ever have been We look for continued growth and expansion ’’
American Founders Group Buying	-
Louis H Seagrave, pics.cent < f United Founders Corp, and American Founders Corp . stated that the group had cash in excess of S4S 000.000 and in the last two days had been j buying carefully selected American stocks. In ! addition, he said, other affiliated companies have nearly $40,000,000 each. The American Found- . ers group has more than SGI.000.000 invested m bonds.
Liquidating valve of Amencan Founders Corp, common stock is between $40 and SCO a share, taking assets at current market quotations Consolidated cash earnings of the corporation for the fiscal year ending November 30 will be between $5 50 and $6 a share. Present breakup value of United Founders Corn common is between $30 and S40 a share and consolidated cash warnings of more than $4 a share will be shown for the fiscal period ending November 30. The company was organized in February.	.
To increase its c ash position the American Founders group has been liquidating certain investments abroad.
Mr. Seagrave’s statement that the group has cash m excess of $4S 000.000 indicates that, it has purchased about $25,000,000 securities m the last few days.
Advocates Insurance Buying
Albert Conway, Superintendent of Insurance ox the State oi New York, following a special conference on Tuesday with beads ot principal insurance companies, said. "There has oecn such a drsatic readjustment ot prices o“ the ’cading common stocks ot the country that 1 took the opportunity this alternoon to recommend to the insurance companies the pur-, chase oi such stocks. In addition 1 called into conference the heads ol the largest life insurance compnn.es available in this state.
"These life insurance officials were unanimous in their behet that many of the leading common stocks ha\e been readjusted to the point where they should be purchased. Unfortunately the\ felt that under the present laws of the state of New Yoxk, their hands were tied I stated to them that 1 would recommend to the next legislature of the state of New York an amendment to the statute to permit purchase of the leading common stocks by life insurance companies for investment purposes. The life insurance presidents who were at the conference offered to return Wednesday afternoon and confer to see if there was any way m which, under the present statute, they could make purchases."
Following life insurance company presidents were among those called to the meeting: Edward D. Duffield. Prudential Life Insurance Co , Thomas I. Parkinson. Equitable Life Assurance Society. Darwin P. Kingsley. New York Life Insurance Co . and David F. Houston, Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York.
Fire, marine and casualty insurance companies. as well as surety companies, may purchase common stocks under the present statutes.
The follow -ng table lists the 31 stocks in which the initial sales were in blocks ot 10.000
Cort/iwMe*! oh Fifteenth Page Many large capitalists, likewise, wewe hunting bargains and buying stocks.
This situation, in the opinion of the spokesman, indicated "that people are taking the blinders off their eyes and looking more at the facts."
Trading in Record Volume
Though trading volume of 16.410,000 shares exceeded last Thursday’s record by some 3.000.-O00 shares, the tape was not nearly as late recording prices, the last sale being printed at 5:32 p. m.. against 7:03 p. m. on the smaller business Thursday.
Furthermore, the average decline in prices was Jess than the previous day. Tuesday’s closings finding the Dow-Jones industrial average down 30.57 points, compared with 38.33 points on Monday. The rail average declined 8.35 points yesterday, whereas on Monday they were off 10.91 points. At their close of 230.07 on Tuesday, the industrial average was off 96 points in one week, a break of 33% m six trading days. From the high on September 3. the averages Tuesday night were off 151 points, a drop of 40' f.
The New York Curb Exchange also had a record day yesterday with total trades of 7.096.300 chares, while the tape ran more than three hours late, the last sale being recorded at 6:20 p. m.
Statement from J- T- Morgan A Co.
' Following the afternoon conference of the banking group in the office of J. P. Morgan & Co., one of the partners of that firm, acting as a spokesman of th* group, said:
“I want to take occasion tonight to explain again, as heretofore, that the banking group was organized to offer certain support in the market and to act as far as possible as somewhat of a stabilizing factor." the spokesman for the bankers’ group said
"It was not an attempt of the group to maintain prices but to maintain a free market. In other words, to correct the conditions that prevailed last Thursday.
"The group has continued and will continue m a cooperative way to support the market and has not been a seller of stocks.’’
Emphasis On Extra Dlx idcntl Declarations
There was no attempt made to forecast when the selling would dry up. but, as an indication of general business conditions, emphasis was laid on the fact that the V. S. Steel Corp, had declared an extra dividend of 31 a share on its common stock, a reflection of company’s prospects of earning 320 a common share this year. Another development along similar linos was the extra 31 payment and increase in the annual common dividend rate to $1, from $3. by American Can Co.
It was pointed out that a step toward cooperation among tho banks could bo implied from the action of many leading institutions in reducing their margin requirements on brokerage borrowings, a development which clearly indicated that the banks do not want to crowd brokers into putting up more collateral on their loans.
Further reviewing the day’s developments from the viewpoint of results obtained by the banking group, this spokesman stated that better feeling was warranted in the action of the market itself on Tuesday. While it was a record trading day and prices were off generally, it was pointed out that there were various stocks in whicb good advances in prices occurred. Such a situation, he added, usually means outs.de buy.ng due to low price levels of securities
Others of tho banking group leaving the meeting assumed a much more cheerful attitude, apparently feeling that progress was> being made in checking the wove of hysteria. While leaving the talking to the spokesman for the group, several members of the conference stated their belief that the situation was much better than it had been and that many stocks were down to where they were being bought by investors.
Two members of the banking group early in the day stated their op.nion that stocks were cheap and near a turn. From Chicago came the statement that the pea’k of the selling has been reached, according to Arthur Reynolds, chairman of the Illinois Eank &. Trust Co.
••Teak of Selling Reached**
•'I have just been in communication with New York." Mr. Reynolds said, "and the banks* there are determined to support the market at this point. There cannot help but be a tremendous short interest, and this should give the basis for expecting a sharp recovery the moment the turn can be accomplished."
Other helpful influences were at work to calm a disturbed situation. For the first time, the Stock Exchange announced, prior to the opening, that the call money renewal rate would be 5r<. Late in the day the rate went to 6%.
J. p. Morgan & Co. made the important announcement that leading institutions, including J F Morgan & Co.. National City Bank. First National Bank, Chase National Bank. Bankers Trust Co . Equitable Trust Co.. New York Trust Co.. Irving Trust Co. and Bank ot America, fo’ the present at least plan to require maintenance ot only 25; 'r . margin on Street demand loans This was a change from the previous practice ol requiring brokers to put up 40% excess collateral on call loans.
Heavy Sales at Opening
The opening transactions gave clear indication that another day of tremendous selling was in prospect, no less than 58 different issues opening m blocks of 10.000 shares or more at price declines 1 to 15 points under the closing levels of Monday. These opening sales of large blocks of leading stocks exceeded 1,000,000 shares
In the first half hour of business volume reached the unprecedented total for such a period of 3,259,800. The first two hours saw S.350.CO0 shares of trad*ng volume, while to 1:30 p. m. the business done exceeded 12,650,000 shares and total for the day was 16,388,700 shares.
In such a hectic session with large blocks of every description of stocks being throws on the market, the associated group of banking interests was again a factor in the market. The expected purchase of stocks from various institutions such as banks, insurance companies and investment trusts came into the market.
Buying Makes Small Impression
But in the face of the unprecedented outpouring of shares, this buying power had little effect for the greater part of the day. It was not until close to 2 p. m. before those on the buying side made much impression on prices. By that time.new lows had been reached all over the list with here and there some pivotal stock indicating, by moving in a minor price range, that* the liquidation had run its course.
A real rally developed after 2 p. m. and it was significent that it was joined in by a wide price gain in convertible bond issues, such leading descriptions of this type as American Telephone convertibles rallying 15 points and In-
shares or moie along with the		opening	prices
and the changes these	represent	led from	Mon-
day’s close:			
	Opening Salt		es
	Shares	Price	Off
General Motors 		.50,000	45 '4	2%
United Corp		.50.000	26	7’2
Standard Oil of N. J. ..	50.000	57	7
Chrysler 		.50.000	33	7
International Tel. & Tel	.50,000	71	17
International Nickel. ..	.47.000	30	8
Curtiss Wright		.45,000	10 % .	2'4
Consolidated Gas		.45,000	95’4	2
Anaconda		.45.000	S2	U'4
Columbia Graphophone.	.35,000	20’2	6%
Paramount		.30,000	Lj t	12%
Gold Dust		.30,000	35	5
Radio Corp		.30.000	30	10’4
National Power & Light.30.000		28=4	37a
Atlantic Refining . . . .	.25.000	30	10»4
Kennecott 		.25.000	69’,;	l’S
estinghouse Electric.	.25,000	130’2	14’2
American Radiator....	.25,000	30	~2
Union Carbide		,25,000	70’4	13%
Timken Roller		.25,000	70’4	19%
Reynolds Tobacco B. ..	.23,000	50%	2%
C„ M. & St. Paul pfd. .	.20,000	34’2	7’2
Bendix Aviation 		.20,000	38%	3%
Montgomery Ward....	.20.000	52	7’4,
Kreuger & Toll		. 20.000	2S’'»	14x
Sinclair		.20,000	26%	m
Du Pont de Ncmours..	.20,000	13S	12%
Columbia Gas		.20.000	66	4%
Erie 		.20.000	50	5
Radio Keith		.20.000	15 U	4%
General Foods		.20.000	-12 >4	5%
Jjoan Crowd Thin			
ascertain whether or not it is short of a certain ; stock on balance.	j
If so. the margin clerk calls up another . house and arranges to borrow the stock. Hence. I proceedings in the loan crowd now are mostly devoted to establishing the borrowing rates to guide members in making their over-the-tele-phonc arrangements.
While a large short interest was outstanding last week, it is believed that a good part of it was covered on last Thursday’s decline. Floor brokers report that most of the short selling now takes place on the Exchange during the day. and is usually fairly well cancelled before the close.
Pom The Wall Stiikki	Cleveland tfuieau
CLEVELAND—Stock prices are now down within old buying ranges as established by the record running back for 30 years, said Col. Leonard P. Ayres. The 100 leading stocks at Tuesday’s prices give better yield than the corresponding good bonds for the first time since 1927.
Estimates regarding the size of the short interest in the present market arc largely guesswork, owing to the tremendous volume of trading. Under normal conditions a large number of brokers assemble in the loan crowd aftej; the close to make arrangements to borrow stocks for clients taking a short position. At present, however, the dealings are so large that it is usually long after the close before a firm can
From Tiik Wai.i. Stkfet Joi i.sal Chicago Buieau
CHICAGO—Harris Trust At Savings Bank has lowered rate on brokers' loans to 7% from 8r/f. Bank states that reduction in brokers* loan rate applies only on loans made from its own funds. Rate on country bank funds loaned through Harns Trust remains at 8%.
Special from llu.iton A’ctcs rtmeau
BOSTON—First National Stores Inc., directors have dispatched following telegram to ail shareholders:	"Present chaotic conditions in
securities markets warrant our advising stockholders that financial condition of First National Stores, Inc., is very strong. Earmng^arc larger than ever, and prospects never brighter.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.