Drastic Declines: Increase in Local Bank Rate Starts Heavy Selling in General List Drastic Declin Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 10, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1	.	.
Drastic Declines
Increase in I-ncal Hank Hate Starts
Jlcatii Scllintj in General L:st
Taken unawares by the establishment of a rediscount rate in New York, stocks experienced severe declines today. Announcement of the action of the Federal Reserve authorities after Thursday’s close caused a huge accumulation of selling orders at the opening, and breaks of six to ten points took place in active stocks throughout the list.
Among the issues which suffered severe losses from tne previous close were General Electric. Westinghouse. Steel. American Can. Standard Gas, Public Service of New Jersey. American & Foreign Power. Goodyear and Anaconda. After the initial dips, the general list steadied somewhat on support based on the belief that the nigher bank rate removed an un certainty which has been affecting the behaxior of the market for same time.
It was felt that a strong offsetting influence had been furnished in the reduction in bankers’ acceptances rates, which was expected to aid autumn business expansion. However, rallying tendencies which developed in the mam body of stocks were prevented from picking up momentum by persistent Iiqu.datmn of accounts impaired by the bad breaks at the opening. Jn the afternoon the selling movement was resumed an'! price*: generally broke below the initial levels.
Call money was firm at the renewal rate of
Con'nifrcJ on ZtirPth Fape
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Drastic Declines
CowtreMcrf	Ftrat Fap*	.
Srr. and uneasiness on this score promoted additional liquidation. Rublic utilities were weak, declining under tbe leadership of American Telephone, whi^h had headed the recent vigorous upsw’ing rn this department. However, the volume of dealings in the afternoon was substantially reduced from the S.OOO.OOO-share pace maintained during the morning Transactions for the full day were 5.017.400 shares, the largest turnover since the break in the market toward the end of March.
One of the cheerful aspects of the situation created by the sudden increase of !'<• in the rediscount rate at this center was the fact that it did not come upon a market weakened by reckless exploitation of unseasoned stocks. While sweeping advances have taken place over the last eight weeks, they have converged almost entirely on issues of tbe highest grade. Leadership in the railroad group has been furnished by such seasoned shares as New York Central and Atchison, while IT. S. Steel. Union Carbide, General Electric. Westinghouse, and American have been the standard bearers in the industrial division.
While there was no division of opinion as to the immediately unsettling effects of tbe higher bank rate, considerable difference of views existed m Stock Exchange circles as to the ■ultimate influence of this step. Many interests held that the action of the Federal Reserve authorities marked the inauguration of a definite ■ • • -ir business pur-h’s program would involve release of credit now tied was argued therefore, that be materiallv deflated in pome comment at oiurged --’vantage of rallies to
plan to make funds available fo: poses, and that th'" efforts to force the up in securities. It stork prices mu«t coming weeks, and their clients to lake advr. lighten their holdings.
° «
condi-it was it was without wa«*
Krom a business standpoint the n<J,on described a? beneficial in that it would res a. larger portion of tho .oimtrys cred.t to .he use of industry, but only nt the	" brm"-
draw r.~ it from the security market' by brl"-mg nressu-e to bear on banks to roduie rediscounts. which naturally would involve heat y calling of loans and Hqu.dat.on of secur.nes held a, collateral. On the other hand, not a. lea financial observers expressed the belief tha. the advance m the bank rate merely represented adjustment of the rediscount charge -o tions m the open money mat lie.. " hl‘e held to be a gesture against specii.ation. declared that the increase would be ■practical significance cspccia.ly as 1. w a a Tomplmed by a redmt.on in the buying rate on ^""‘lumber of shrewd students of[ market conditions urged their clienteles no. to heads and throw stocks overboard vitbou. dis crimination. Instead of being a timet for liqu>-dation of long-pull holdings, these ,n‘ere-..s held that advantage should be liken of p icer cessions to pick up bargains in selcc.ed issues. Stocks particularly favored were New I ork Central. Atchison. General Eler.ric tx e.-um.-housc. American Can. Cor solmat cd uas and American Telephone
were equivalent indications point $1(i a share. In the company recommon half of 192$
.he best
Interests optimistic jegard.ng th- outlook for special stocks took adventa-e o. the weakness in the general mallet to pus up thei favorites on price recessions. Buying o. I nder-wood Elliott Fisher wa. des< ribed as particularly good. Beople conducting th- accumulation pointed out that t’nderwood was selling at or.lv about Ji. times its prospective V. 29 earnin'-'? while other seem dies in the ..nice equipment group, such as National Cas.i Register. International Busmess Machine.' an.t Fu-roughs Adding Machines, are selling fit from 20 tn ..n times earnings
Vnderwond’s J92S earnings 10 $G 15 a common sha-e and ’o a 1929 showing of a: least the first six months this year ported a balance of $4.57 a against $2 92 m the firsi last three months are usually vear, it is considered possible that the showing for the full year may easily improve on current estimates Large blocks of Underwood have been taken out of the market for the account of investment trusts, substantially reducing the floating supply.
share. As the of the
International Hydro-Electric held better than the majority ot the utility stocks, due to buying bv a strong group which is enthusiastic regarding the long-pull possibilities of the stock. International Hydro-Electric system, through its subsidiaries, the New England Power Association and Canadian Hydro-Electric Corp.. supplies electric energy in five states ol New England and three provinces of Canada with 40 hydro and steam-clectric plants strategically placed to serve 15.000 square miles. It interconnects with the recently formed Niagara-Hudson Power Corp Output of its subsidiaries in 192$ showed an increase of about $2’, over 3927. It is estimated output fo*" 1929 will be 35'r greater than last year.
Gross income ot the system m 192S. plus annual income to be denied lrom signed contracts nt the rate of delivery’ called tor on or before October. 1931. is over $40,000,000 Earnings on the Clas* A stock recently listed on tne New York Stock Exchange arc stated n be at the annual rate of $5 or better.
• » •
While the stock market naturally recoiled under the first shock of the higher Federal Reserve Bank rate, calmer reflection in money market circles sees the move as a constructive one. and one that is calculated to put an end to the abnormal situation existing for some time. The step, it is believed, will ultimately benefit the whole business and financial structure.
The general idea that the action of the Reserve Bank is directed primarily against the Street to force liquidation of security loans is not the opinion held m well-informed banking circles. The Reserve Board has already plainly stated that it is not the purpose ot the svstem to' operate directly against any class ot business and there is no reason to believe it has now changed this principle. It is concerned only with general business conditions.
Confronted with tho approaching crop demands it was apparent that the Reserve System could not continue its program of withholding its credit from the market. What has really’ happened, therefore, is a change, or at least n modification, of this program which will add to the supply of business money in the market. For the Reserve Bank, however, to have come out and bought bills and securities, undeservedly. in the market, in the present state of speculative fever, would have been misconstrued and possibly* abused. It. therefore, resorted to the dual expedient of raising the rediscount rate while inviting the open market to sell it bills at an advantageous rate. In other words, the Reserve Bank is following the course long advocated in local banking circles. Bankers have all along contended that a higher bank rate, under present conditions, would tend to benefit, not hurt, business.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.