Curb Market Comment: Market Rallies Initial Firmness Followed by ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 7, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Curb Market Comment

Market ~ Rallies
Initial Firmness Followed by Selling, with Midday Rally and . Fair Clos&
comeback from close on Thurs-selected stocks
The market made a strong iow levels established at the day. under the leadership of from all groups, although the utilities were especially favored. Electric Bond & Share which opened" with a five point gain but sold down again during tbe morning, strengthened around noon and recoveied most of the ground that was lost in the irregular movement of the past few days. In the final hour, however, Bond & Share fluctuated erratically, shifting from substantial rallies to reactions, and back again. American Superpower was in good demand around the noon hour, but sold, off again in the early afternoon. Standard Power & Light, which rose more	eleven points through new high ter-
ritory, was a feature.
The natural gas shares were in good demand most of the day, Dixie Gas & Utilities and Southwest Gas Utilities showing the greatest vigor in. the recovery. Associated Gas g Electric A and debenture rights held well against selling in 'the morning and were strong in the early afternoon but failed to hold their best levels of the day. Oil shares were depressed early in the day but rallied under the leadership of Standard of Indiana, Gulf and Humble in the afternoon. Central States Electric was inclined to sell off as were a few other utilities and utility holding companies. Electric Power Associates. moving Into new hi£h ground to around 79, attracted attention.
• » •
St. Regis Paper rallied and reacted several times during the day, but tbe range was comparatively* narrow and represented better levels than the stock had touched for some time previous to the current move. Investment trusts were easy in the first hours though a few, including Goldman Sacha Trading, encountered moderate buying around the third hour.
Tri-Utilities reached new high ground on a revival of buying by interests who consider the stock is selling at a comparatively low capitalization of earnings, in view of its prospects for increasing income consistently. At tbe present time, Tri-Utilities is earning at the rate of better than $3.50 annually. As yet, the company ia showing no earnings from the common stock of its latest acquisition, Southern Natural Gas, but earnings from this source are expected in the near future. Tri-Utilitie^ also holds control of the B stocks of Federal Water Service and Peoples Light & Power, where earnings arc increasing steadily.
Ford of France American depositary receipts were admitted to trading on Thursday but failed to attract the same early enthusiasm that greeted the appearance of Ford Motor Ltd. in the winter. Ford France, at around $13 a share is already* selling well above the equivalent of_ the 100 franc par value at which the shares were issued. Shares of the company were admitted to full trading privileges on the Faris Bourse this week after a period of activity on the Faris Curb Market. Of the 1.300,000 shares outstanding 520,000 were offered m France for public subscription. The Ford interests have retained control of the company through ownership of 60r? of the stock outstanding.
The oil group was one of the few groups to show general depression at the opening. There is not a large enough' popular interest in the oils at this time to attract heavy “bargain buying’’ and the lethargy that has affected most of the stocks in this group for a long time has made all but the most determined long pull holders nervous and inclined to liquidate when general market conditions seem at all unfavorable. Interests holding a constructive position in the oils maintained that the long pull prospects were as good as ever, and this element was credited with picking up offerings of Gulf, Standard of Indiana and other leaders on a scale down.	"
Electric Bond & Share at the opening was a conspicuous example of the way in which overnight market buying orders accumulate for the account of bargain hunters when a general depression is prophesied. Bond & Share showed a five point advance on a block of 9,500 shares, thus retracing in one transaction most of the ground lost in the disastrous final hour of trading on Thursday. American Superpower which had been a heavy sufferer in the late selling Thursday steadied moderately but failed to show the vigorous rallying power that characterized Electric Bond & Share. Electric Investors opened a point lower although this was not considered significant in this stock which has a reputation for moving a point to five points at a time between, sales.
Chain store traders noted that the general selling in the market on Thursday failed to bring out many offerings of Lane Bryant. Sales of this company are running about 20% ahead of those of last year with prospects cf earnings of about $10 a share of the present common for the year. Company has a small capitalization, with only 83,000 shares outstanding.
* * *
The copper stocks, especially Newmont and Koran da were forced down again after an early show of .strength. Both leaders are still selling well ahead of their recent trading levels, however, and traders who have been recommending s^Jpng pull position in expectation of a good market in the late fall and winter profess to be undisturbed by the failure of the stocks to hold their gains entirely at a time when the general market is depressed. Hudson Bay Mining is considered, in some quarters, to have favorable long pull possibilities. ’
American Cyanamid B was well supported during the morning, selling up from its previous close in early trading, and meeting heavy scale buying when the price slipped off from the opening levels. American Cyanamid has been a favorite with Curb traders in the past six months, reflecting the popular enthusiasm for leading chemical shares on the big board. Company’s expansion program is making an important place for it in the chemical industry of this country, and investment'buying in the stock recently has paralleled the growth of the company In the period. Company’s report recently -issuec, showing that Cyanamid is now operating . 20 plants, and producing more than 150 chemicals, was fully up to expectations. With earnings at the rate of $3.12 a share on the average shares outstanding in the year ended June 30, it .was felt that the benefits of expansion were to appear. In addition to the $13,-O00/J00 spent on plant expansion by the company during the year, new companies also have . been, acquired through exchange of stock. A great deal of new stock has been issued by -Cyanamid in the past year, some for exchange fbr the assets of acquired companies, and the balance for sale to stockholders on attractive terms. Rights offered to stockholders in the' past'year were worth about $30 % a share.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.