A Turn in the Tide Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 25, 1929; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 1	-	•	___• ,
A Turn in the Tide
On the late Charles H. Dow’s well known method of reading the stock market movement from the Dow-Jones averages, the twenty railroad stocks on Wednesday, October 23. confirmed a bearish indication given by the industrials two days before. Together tbe averages gave tbe signal for a bear market in stocks after a major bull market with tbe unprecedented duration of almost six years. It is noteworthy that Barron’s and the Dow-Jones News Service on October 21 pointed out the significance of the industrial signal, given subsequent confirmation by the railroad average. The comment was as follows:
••If. however, the market broke again, after a failure to pass the old highs, and th* decline carried the price of the industrials below 325.17 and the railroads below 168.26, the bearish indication would be strong, and might well represent something more than a secondary’ reaction, however severe. It has often been said in these studies of the price movement that the barometer never indicates duration. There was a genuine major bear market in 1923. but it lasted only eight months. One good reason for not taking the present indications too seriously is that they have all been recorded in a most unusually short space of time. The severest reaction from the high point of the year had just one month’s duration. In view of the nation-wide character of the speculation, this seems a dangerously short period to infer anything like complete reversal in public sentiment.”
There was a striking consistency about the market movement since the high figure of September 3. There were at least four rallies in the course of the decline in the industrials before the definite new low point was established and each of these was weaker than the last. Dow always considered this a danger signal, but for the past thirty years it has been the custom in discussing the stock market as a barometer of business to require that one average should confirm the other. Failure to agree has been found deceptive.
There are people trading in Wall Street. anH many all over the country who have never seen a real bear market, as for instance, that which began in October, 1919. and lasted for two years, or that from 1912 to 1914 which predicted the Great War if the world had then been able to interpret the signs- What is more material is that the stock market does forecast the general business of the country. The big bull market was confirmed by six years of prosperity and if the stock market takes the other direction there will be contraction in business later, although on present indications only in moderate volume.
Some time ago it was said in a Wall Street Journal editorial that if the stock market was compelled to deflate, as politicians seemed so earnestly to wish, they would shortly after experience a deflation elsewhere which would be much less t.o their liking.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.