Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 4, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg.18	hi
Abreast of the Market
Daily Column of Comment
A good rally developed in the stock market , yesterday. The leading issues started “better, j but the greater part of the advance came after I publication of President’s message to Con-( gress. This was a signal for demonstrations in ! various groups which encouraged short cover-1 ing. aiding the recovery. There were tunes j when many stocks ran into increased offerings, i but the demand was so much larger than recently that‘this supply was well absorbed.
Many traders felt early in the day that the ■r»uy which started in industrials late Monday would be continued and instead of following their usual practice of selling stocks on the bulges	element turned to the buying side
and helped along the upturn. There also was a moderate increase in the public demand, indicating outsiders will purchase stocks when various factors point to higher prices.
As was to be expected, there were some laggards. This was due to the continued switching by holders from the stocks which have not moved ahead with the leaders in the past to the higher grade issues. Such irregularity in movements can be expected to continue . as the market is no longer looked -on as a unit ' and greater caution is being used in making buying selections.
Conservatives have not changei their attitude toward the market. During the rally they I advised followers to take advantage of the ’ higher prices and reduce long commitments. They do not expect the recovery to be maintained for any length of time and believe irregularity will again develop, during which stocks now sold can be replaced at lower prices.
Trading
Commission houses were credited with having bought slightly on balance for the first time in nearly two weeks. There was an increased outside demand and this more than dff-set the profit taking and liquidation whicn developed.
Professionals and floor traders were buyers during the forenoon, but later in the day, when the upturn gained momentum, these operators turned to the selling side, and sales were moderately larger than the earlier purchases.
Tax Trading
Trading during the remainder of the current month may be confused at times, due to the establishment of losses for tax purposes. In most instances this should result in selling in a number of stocks. However, those disposing of their long holdings may repurchase other issues in the same category. Thus, puzzling irregularity might be shown at tunes.
Several of the leading commission houses recently have been advocating a policy of selling the stocks which show large losses and reinvesting the funds in the standard issues. Customers who can establish losses for tax purposes by’ this procedure have been following these recommendations.
Short Position
Action of the market at times recently has shown the short position has much to do with price movements. There have been rallies in issues in which there has been a substantial short interest, while other stocks have been reacting. This was emphasized Monday* when industrials, in which the shorts have been active. scored a good upturn m the averages, while the rails, without much of a short interest, were declining.
Instalment Selling
Wall Street has held the opinion that the break in the stock market will have considerable effect on instalment selling of luxuries. In fact, it has been insisted that in many’ cases, where but few payments have been made, the purchasers will return the articles to the seller. This view is not shared by those active in this business. They do not believe many’ of the instalment purchases were dependent on profits in the stock market for payments. In this connection Arthur Greene, president of the Merchants & Manufacturers Securities Co., a discount corporation which does & business in excess of $50,000,000 a year, makes this comment: “Our experience is that -purchases on the time payment plan are paid for out of earnings, and the only thing that will cause a slowing up of instalment payments is curtailment of employment. Looking over an analysis of paper purchased by us, I find that 25% represents furniture, radio and household appliances; 16% electric refrigeration, commercial refrigeration and heavy machinery: 7.5% boilers, heating, plumbing and other household improvements and 19% motor lien paper. The remainder of about 32% represented open accounts, notes and trade acceptances.
“It will be noted that there are very few luxuries in this list. I do not even admit that the radio is a luxury. It has come to be an almost universally used meahs for entertainment and information. While there has been some overproduction, I am satisfied this condition will right itself before long, and that the radio business on an instalment basis has a wonderful future.
“Remember that at least 40% of all employment is directly dependent on instalment selling. This percentage is increasing, and, in view of present conditions, I would not be surprised if this percentage is increased to 50% in the next six months. There may be some increase in unemployment, but so far as instalment selling is concerned, the number of people utilizing this method of purchase probably will be increased by those who up to this time have purchased for cash.’*
Rail Mergers
While the financial district has been actively discussing the possibility of early announcements on rail mergers, authorities in the railroad field do not expect any announcement of importance from the Interstate Commerce Commission before the end of the year. Meanwhile, there may be speculative interest in a number of the rails which have good consolidation prospects.	k
-	New Haven
One of the large commission and wire houses has been advising its clients to switch from the more speculative rail shares into New Haven on the theory that the stock has been established on a $6 a share dividend basis and the territory served had little industrial inflation, so the improved earnings of the past 18 months can be attributed to natural growth and internal developments in the road.
Missouri Pacific
Early next week there will be a hearing in Washington on the plans of the Missouri Pacific management for discharging the accumulated dividends on the preferred stock with common stock at $100 a share. Because of the decline In the junior issue it is considered possible in Wall Street that there may be some change
in the plans which might be beneficial for the preferred stock.
St. Paul Preferred
Unless there is a serious reduction in business conditions, suflicient to affect earnings ol St. Paul in the coming months, it is the belie! i in well informed circles that directors will put I the preferred stock on a dividend basis next ‘year. Some of the recent accumulation of the issue has been on this theory.
Coppers
All indications point to a tendency among copper authorities to bold the price of the metal. It is admitted there is not likely to be much buying before the beginning of February, but sales made in the earlier months this year were large and copper interests apparently believe the best course will be to keep quotations stable.
The big expected demand from, the construction plans of the railroads, electrical equipment concerns and public utilities is not likely to develop until near the end of the first quarter of next year. If the price of the red metal can be held firm during this interim, it would be advantageous for all the producers.
Rubber
Private advices received in Wall Street show that authorities in the tire field are not as pessimistic on the outlook as some of the trading element. In fact, it is contended that inventories have been cut considerably and leading trade interests are of the opinion that current conditions should bring an unusually large replacement demand for tires in the coming year. This buying should tend to offset any reduction in the purchasing for new cars which might result from lessened activities of a number of the motor car manufacturers, in the opinion of these authorities.
General American Tank
Action of General American Tank at times recently has been impressive. The stock has been able to go through what chart students considered the resistance points on the up-side, and this has been instrumental in bringing some buying into the issue. The company has done well even during periods when other equipment concerns were reporting unsatisfactory results, and larger equipment buying should mean excellent results for coming months. Much of the buying in the stock during reactions in the past few weeks has been- on a scale for prominent interests in the middle west, credited with being informed on the affairs of the concern. Eastern equipment interests also have bought some of the stock on the past record of the company.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.