Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 1, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 23
Abreast of the Market
-4 T>aUy Column of Comment
The final session of 1929 was comparatively strong. There were periods of profit-taking' and some additional liquidation, hut the offerings in the leading Issues were well absorbed, and when the pressure was lifted these stocks moved ahead impressively.
Considerable short covering was noted, the - bears being inclined to take in their commitments and realize profits because the results will be included in the incomes for the new year and need not be reported in 1929. A good outside Investment demand was reported in A number of standard dividend payers.
Tax selling in the regular way being eliminated. the only pressure for the purpose of establishing losses in 1929 was transactions for cash. There were many of these trades, but they were without influence on the regular deal* mgs.
, Call money continued to be held at 6'yc throughout the day and had no effect, because the Street is confident of easier credit conditions shortly.
Sentiment is somewhat more cheerful, with many believing the market is in a minor upward trend. Most observers were advising customers to watch the leading stocks and take profits or reduce long commitments at the first indication of definite resistance on the advance
Trading
Commission houses again were somewhat more active than in recent sessions. Odd-lot investment buying was quite heavy, but leading firms continued to have liquidation and sold moderately on balance.
Professionals and floor traders sold stocks during the forenoon. When the leading issues continued to move ahead these operators took to the buying side, covering shorts, and purchased on balance
Caution
Merchandising authorities report that the public was unusually cautious in its purchase:, of holiday goods. This care also is likely to be exercised in the stock market ir. the coming months. Leading observers have continually advised discrimination to those who have been picking up stocks, and there should be periods this year when certain issues are moving ahead, even while others are declining sharply. Those stocks not in the strongest position are there fore to be avoided, according to these market students.
Money
Easier credit conditions are anticipated before the middle of the current month. The vear-end distributions in dividends and interest were unusuallv large and much of this money xvih come back into regular banking channels seek Ing employment,
leadership
There is no doubt that the market will need strong leadership when it is ready to get out of the rut m which it has been m the past few weeks. The oil group is regarded as having prospects of becoming an outstanding feature during 1930. For an individual leader. U. S Steel is favored, because of the well-known efloc: of strength in this issue on the attitude of the general public.
Structural Steel
The trend in modern building toward the use of structural steel has kept the fabricating plants active throughout the country during the past 12 months in the face of generally .-lower building conditions The Department of Commerce estimates that about 3 500.000 tons nt structural steel were ordered during the first 11 months of last year, a gam of 16'r ovci the corresponding period of 1928.
Scrap Prives
Iron and steel scrap prices often have been viewed ns a sensitive barometer of conditions in the steel industry, foreshadowing events fai nncad. If thjs view is correct the recent improvement in scrap prices in some of the middle western centers indicates that better things are coming lor the industry as a whole. Quotations lor scrap were consistently weak throughout the fall and only recently nave snown improvement. The decline in steel activity was foreshadowed by this development, according to some interests.	i
Rails	‘
Rails have not been particularly popular in recent sessions because of the knowledge that earnings for December will not make favorable comparisons. However, several shrewd observers have been inclined to advise picking up standard rails on recessions on the theory that this group will be mote active in the current year. With merger prospects and other important developments pending the rails may become speculative favorites later in the yea,:.
New York Central
Expenditures planned by New York Cent:al for this year will reach a total of appiu.x;. mately $130,000,000. Any move in the rail group should find Centra! among the leaders because this stock a prime favorite in many quarters. There has been considerable odd-lot buying of the stock for cash in the past few 1 weeks, and this eventually will be reflected in' a much smaller floating supply.	‘
Chain Store Sales	!
Sales of chain stores in December are likely l to be somewhat below predictions made earlier 1 last month. The snow and frigid weather in northern New York and some of the middle, western territories curtailed buying consider-, ably, and the Christmas volume was smaller than anticipated.
Chicago Pneumatic Tool
The trend of activity in the steel trade has *»ver been a fairly reliable indicator of Chicagc Pneumatic Tool Co’s, business, and with i.teei operations pointing downward during the past two months a somewhat lessened rate of activity for the company appears to be foreshadowed However, the company is closing its best year.
While 19.30 may not bring the rush of order? the company enjoyed in the past summer, a good average business is expected The nexx lock bit for drilling in the oil fields is expected to be a substantial supplement to earnings The companx spent considerable time and m<»ncx in developing this product and is about tc realize returns ftum it.
>>«•*% 1 ork Air Brake
Recent increase in the annual dividend of New York Air Brake to $3 60 a share, from $3 has improved the return from this slock. On its present selling price. Air Brake yields around
. one of the high yields in the equipment group. Earnings for 1929 probably will be slightly less than $5 a share, and the outlook for 1930 indicates that operations and earnings should be approximately as good as in the year just closed.
Tobacco*
That 1930 will be a good year for the tobacco manufacturing companies, particularly those in the cigarette field, is the view in responsible quarters. The leading makers of popular brands will get the benefits of the advance in prices made last September. There has been a steady increase in the consumption of cigarettes, and this expansion in sales probably will continue.
Lambert
Interests who have otlen been active in Lambert in the past contend that if sales and earnings of the companx continue to increase during the first six months of this year thete is a possibility directors xvill ueclare an extra dividend before June 30. The company has been doing well even during iecent months xxhen other concerns were showing i educed sales and seventies.
Betulix
Bendix has not been popular in recent weeks because the company is dependent on the automobile and aviation industries, in which conditions have not been considered favorable. Earnings for List year should be around $4 a share. xx*hich would compare with combined net income of subsidiaries in 1928 of S4.44 a share on the present capitalization.
Gillette
Within a short time Gillette will place on the market its nexx* razor and a new blade. The new blades will fit the old razors, but the old blades cannot be used on the new razor. It is maintained that patents xvill prevent the manufacture of imitation blades by other concerns for a period of 17 years.
Interests close to the management are anticipating excellent results from these new products, which will permit the company to continue the remarkable record made in the past years. Estimates are that 1929 will show about $8.50 a share earned on the stock, compared with $7.74 in 1928.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.