Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 20, 1929; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 17
Abreast of the Market
si Daily Column of Comment
! Stotks made effort to go forward yesterday. and for a time prices were higher, but again selling developed in the afternoon and resulted in net losses on the day. Trading was largely professional and the switching from one side to the other by this element had much to do with the fluctuations. Tax selling increased during the afternoon. This supply came at a time when the demand was smaller than recently and continued to have its influence on ' the market.
There is quite a short interest outstanding. In the pa*t w->ek commission houses have reported many customers as seeking advices on short sales. This has resulted in offerings, despite the advice from leading firms against adopting a short position. It has been possible to cover shorts on the reactions and the fact that some profits have ken made by the bears has encouraged others to put out stocks, especially when moderate rallies occurred.
There has been no change in sentiment. Tbe leading conservative observers are keeping their clients on the side lines. They favor taking advantage of rallies to reduce long commitments on the theory that for the time being there is no Indication. of any concerted move to get stocks to higher levels, and resistance is encountered on all recoveries. On the other hand it is also contended that the reactions are meeting scale support and the general view is that, as a result of this situation, the market is likely to continue to fluctuate within a trading range.
Trading
Commission houses sold moderately on balance. There was only a very limited amount ot public buying, even on the rea lions, whereas the small rallies met with increased outside offerings.
Professionals and floor traders covered shorts actively at times, although these operators also supplied the list when storks started moving ahead. Thi® element purchased on balance.
Professional Trading
Trading lias been h’ghly professional in recent sessions as is indicated by price fluctua-t'ons. Operators are not taking long term positions When they buy stocks they take advantage of the rallies to liquidate immediately S.milarlv. on short selling, covering is noted as soon as reactions get under way. The net result has been that the market has moved within a trading range. I’sua'ly such action discourages public participation, and leading commission houses report now that outside interest in the market is smaller than it has been in a long time.
Rumor*
Rumor factories are hard at work, judging by the many reports being circulated In most instances they are unfavorable and have been responsible for some liquidation not only m the issues affected by the reports, but also in other stocks, due to the continuing nervousness of the public.
Credit
An encouraging dcve.opmcnt has been the comparative case in credit. It had been expected that during the period of mid-month distributions there would be considerable tightening m the cal! money market. The period passed without disturbance and while it is still likely call money will be higher around the end of the year when there will be unusually large interest and dividend disbursements, the belief prevails the situation will be kept well in hand.
Rail*
The Street «till is awaiting anxiously some annnun< cmrnt from the Interstate Commerce Commission on railroad mergers. There has been qutcl accumulation in many rail shares m the past ten days because of reports that a statement will come out of Washington before tne end of the year, and perhaps within another vx eek.
St. I^aul PrrtrrrM
Talk of an initial dividend on St. Paul pre-ferxed early in tne new v^a: is becoming more gcneial Eaminp* on this stock should be about $6 against $7 in	and some important
northwestern buying has been reported in. the issue.
Radio
Opinion® on Radio are still two-sided. A certain element has been working for higher prices, while a bear party has been putting out the stock. Movements at times have been highly confusing because of this apparent contest in. the issue. There has been some talk that the government might start the necessary legal action to permit Radio to sell its communications division to the International Telephone & Telegraph Co on the basis presented before the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Westinghouse Klectric
In trade circles it is pointed out that Westinghouse Electric will be making an electric refrigerator at its plant in Springfield. Mass., early next year. The new machine js said to haw* many features which should make it attractive to the consumer.
Foster Wheeler
Although Foster Wheeler increased the dividend recently from $1 to $2 a share, there is talk of a still higher rate before the end of the year. Estimates in Wall Street are that earnings this year will be well over $6 a share, with business holding up w’cll. The company manufactures oil refinery equipment, pumps, brass and copper pipe, tubing, etc. Because of the moderate capitalization and small floating supply, the stock has had w’ide fluctuations in the past few months.
CoppPTM
Few* in Wall Street expected the price of copper to be maintained at IS cents as long as it has. A few w’eeks ago there were rumors of a sharp reduction in the quotation. There w'ere without foundation, because leading trade interests had been firm in holding their price, and insisted no additional business could be obtained by making concessions when demand was small.
Export buying has been somewhat better recently on the average, and it is now evident copper authorities are intent on keeping the 18-cent price until there is a resumption of domestic consumption on a larger scale.
A.,M. Byers
A. M. Byers Co will start active operation of its new Ambridge plant the first of the year, and expansion in the use of wrought iron made under the new process is looked for. Although the company has been passing through a development period, a new high record in earnings was recorded for the fiscal year ended September 30, last. If the use of wrought iron develops in rolled products as well as pipe, according to predictions of some optimists, Byers should see an increasing portion of the large Ambridge plant used to produce Aston iron, with proportionate gains in profits.
The Mather Interests
The Mather interests of Cleveland have been
active in the recently announced Republic Steel
merger, but even before this they were con-| cerned in strengthening their position in the Middle West. Formation of the Interlake Iron 1 Corp, not long ago, as successor to By-Prod-I ucts Coke Corp., was brought about largely ' through the influence of this group. The new company has assets of more than $50,000,000, against less than $23,000,000 for the old ByProducts organization.
The extensive ore holdings of the group have been commented on as the strong point in. the position of the Mather interests, and when the two new companies, Republic Steel and Interlake Iron, are actively operating, they will be the dominant factors in the merchant pig iron and by-products coke industry throughout the Middle West.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.