Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 25, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 2
An advancing tendency was displayed on the Stock Exchange yesterday. Several encouraging developments contributed to the better feeling. The decrease of $139,000,000 in brokers’ loans was considered one of them, for it was interpreted as confirming the view that stocks recently had been moving from weak into strong hands. Other influences Included the comparatively hopeful feeling shown by the authorities in the steel trade in published interviews, and optimistic predictions concerning the automobile industry and General Motors in particular expressed by John J. Raskob in a statement made to Dow, Jones & Co.
Several times during the day. the market showed* ability to ignore unfavorable developments. That was true particularly during the afternoon, when the passing of its dividend by Montgomery Ward caused that stock to record a new low for the present shares. Several attempts to start a recession by pressing stocks were unsuccessful because slight recessior' encountered scale buying on a rathei large scale.
Short covering was rather large. Bears took in part of their commitments during the early dealings, and that class of buying increased later when it was demonstrated that the market was maintaining its upward trend. At the close, an active demand from the shorts was in evidence in a number of stocks.
Naturally. the rallying ability of the market resulted in more cheerfulness around the Street, although most interests insisted that it was the result of an oversold condition. Conservative observers still are keeping customers on the side lines, arguing that the market should be allowed to prove itself before long positions are adopted.
Traders Bought On Balance
Professionals and floor traders were most active. Short covering was heavy, and while there were some efforts to depress the market again, that element was a buyer on balance. Commission houses continue to report odd-lot investment purchases, but the higher prices attracted profit-taking and liquidation, and the leading firms sold on balance.
Apparent Revaluation of Railroad Shares
; Action of the railroad group in the last few i weeks has led to the conclusion among students that a profound revaluation of rail securities is in progress. Considerable selling has taken place in the rails for the account of investors, according to several commission houses. Those liquidating are not substituting other stocks for the rails and have been withdrawing funds, apparently waiting until they consider the time propitious to enter the market again on the long side. Logically, that liquidation can be attributed to the sharply reduced traffic of the earners. and the corresponding decreases in earnings.
Greater Stability In Commodities
Greater stability in commodities recently has been the subject of considerable comment in financial quarters Many are hoping that the long downward movement definitely has been arrested. Price movements are not nearly as erratic as they were earlier this year. Earlier this year the action of the commodities markets was a big influence in the stock market.
Making Forecnsts
Difficult
Commenting on the difficulty in-making predictions as to market movements, one large commission house says:
“This is not a time when price-earnings ratios, dividend yields and individual business situations are determining stock quotations, but a period in which internal market situations, a complicated political status abroad, and the momentum of pessimistic psychology rule intermediate fluctuations. This is a time when it is unusually difficult to make forecasts.”
Talk on Fourth Quarter Earnings
Although third quarter reports of many companies still arc to be issued. Wall Street already is discussing the results to be shown for the last three months. The popular belief is that earnings for the fourth quarter will be below those for the preceding period in many industries The belief is based on the fact that activities are not increasing, and the outlook is for continue'1 low rates of operation.
St. Paul Preferred in New Low Ground
St. Paul preferred has been in new low territory during the past week. Reports indicate, however, that rather good long-term, scale buying has come into the issue during the sharp set-back. The road will not show a balance for the senior issue this year, earnings being estimated at between 3 25% and 3.50% on the 5r/l adjustment mortgage bonds. Interest of 4% will be paid on the bonds this year, leaving 1% unpaid accumulation.
This is the first year the bonds have been cumulative. Interest previously has been paid at the full 5% rate since the reorganization of the road. In a year of more normal traffic volume, St. Paul should be able to cover its adjustment bond interest and come near to its 1929 showing, when the 5% dividend on the preferred was covered and a small balance left for the common.
Rock Island to Cover Dividend
Lake other railroads. Rock Island has had a sharp shrinkage in earnings this year, but interests identified with the road are confident that the full ST a share dividend on the common stock will be earned by a margin of 50 cents to $1. Because of that, they have expressed the view that the regular dividend will be declared when the directors meet about the middle of next month. In 1929, the road reported earnings of $14.04 a share, while $12.91 a share was shown in 1928.
Watching Consolidated Gas More Closely
It is probable that the action of Consolidated Gas is being watched more closely now than ever before by the rank and file of market observers. For some time, the public utilities have not been receiving much attention from traders and others interested in long-term commitments. In fact, professionals have been credited with being among the chief sellers of those stocks during all rallies
The theory is held that Consolidated Gas is a logical leader among the utilities because it always has been a popular issue with traders as well as outsiders. Any Improvement in the market for that stock probably would result in rather heavy short covering in other utilities.
American Can Showing Resistance
When the extra dividend was declared on American Can several weeks ago, some of the bear traders insisted it was a gesture to bolster the market for the stock, and were inclined to put out additional short h ics after rallies. However, Can has been acting better than some of the other leading industrials for some time. The stock has not penetrated its previous low of the year, and part of its underlying firmness at times has been due to covering by the shorts Important interests in the company have not changed their att.tude toward the outlook. They still feel that results this year will make a favorable companion with those of 1929. and that the prospects for 1931 are satisfactory.
Brokers* Loans Declined 5%
Another substantial reduction was reported in brokers’ loans by the Federal Reserve member banks in New York City for the week ended October 22 The decrease was $139,000,000. or 5%. bringing the total to $2,613,000,000, the lowest since November 24. 1926. The drop reflected the continued liquidation which has come into the market.
Detailed figui es show a decrease of $3,000,000 in loans fiom out-of-town banks to a new low of $511.000.COO. a drop of $24,000,000 m borrowings from “others” to $512,000,000, also a new bottom and a reduction of $112,000,000. in loans from local member banks.
Demand borrowings were reduced to $2,020 000.000 from $2,149,000,000 in the preceding week, and time loans went down to $593,000,000 from $603,000,000.
Mixed Feeling at Steel Meeting
Although most of the public utterances of the steel authorities who gathered here yesterday for the semi-annual meeting of the American Iron & Steel Institute were hopeful, private conversations with many individuals indicated that they were keenly disappointed by the tendency to reduce prices which has prevailed since the corresponding time last year when the recession in business began.	-
However, while general feeling was somewhat mixed, it was noted that a few of the outstanding leaders insisted that there were indications of better stability in quotations. Thej pointed out that normally such a condition is followed eventually by a better situation in the industry.
New York Reserve
Ratio Higher
An advance of 4.6% in the Federal Reserve ratio of the New York bank was the feature of the statement on ratios for the past week. Locally. the ratio is now 87.2%, compared with 82.6% in the preceding week and 85.7% !*-st year. Chicago repotted 83.9%, against 85.57c last week and 79.8% in 1929.
At Boston, the current figure is 82.7%. contrasted with 82.4% in the previous week and 8O.G7r a year ago. For the entire system, an upturn of 1.2rf, to 82 1%. was reported compared with 80.9% a week ago and 74.5% la*?t year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.