Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 1, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 14
j4. Daily Column of Comment
The stock market was strong; throughout Monday's session. It was a dull market and the volume at no time suggested aggressive buying, but it was obvious that in several cases the market was bare of stocks, and when shorts turned to cover they found they had difficulty in completing their transactions. Several issues like American Can, United States Steel and some of the public utilities were advanced easily on comparatively light dealings. The Street believed that the advance was largely at the expense of the professional shorts, and was inclined to await further developments before following it.
Undoubtedly there has been considerable investment buying of leading stocks in the last few weeks. This has taken much of the floating supply of certain inactive Issues like Allied Chemical out of the Street. Incidentally this stock has advanced over 30 points in the past few days.
Money advanced to 3% because of the heavy interest and dividend payments to be made over the first of the month, as July is one of the biggest dividend and interest months of the year. A lot of this money is expected to be reinvested in the Street and some brokers already reported investment orders along these lines.
Brokers Look for Duller Markets
The Street apparently is reconciled to prospects for dull markets during the summer. The rank and file of the Street now apparently desire a period of recuperation, and would welcome quiet sessions. Trade is being watched even more than the ticker, and brokers report that clients ask for commodity prices and general business reports in lieu of stock market gossip and predictions.
i
: Business Not So Bad Aa Gossip Indicates
One of the biggest industrial leaders in the country, commenting on ths pessimism in many quarters, said that while business had fallen off, generally speaking, it was not nearly as bad as the “glooms" would have us believe. He pointed out that most comparisons are with last year, which in its early months showed abnormally
•	big markets and business.
I
| Hahn Department Stores
i On Up-To-Date Basis
| Considerable buying of Hahn Department Stores common and preferred stocks has taken | place around current levels The company is | under able management and has been relieved ! of old inventories. Its personnel throughout the business has been put on a stronger and more up-to-date basis. The centralized buying system
•	is working well and business is quite satisfactory.
lietai] Sales In New York L p 5%
The latest Federal Reserve figures show that department store sales are holding up surprisingly well in view of the general business recession and the lower prices of commodities Sales throughout the country in May were only 1 below last year, md sales in the New York ' district showed a g*-h of 5?? over May, last year. A number of the most important com' parties with listed securities center their operations around New York.
I
, Shorts Find Stocks beared on Radlies
! Whenever the market showed a rallying tendency m the past week, stocks were surprisingly , scarce. Considerable stock has been sold to a ! point where present holders are content to wait , developments. In inactjxe issues, short selling
has made a potential demand out of proportion to the stock offered on the specialists’ books.
American Telephone Rights Expire August 1
Rights to subscribe to the 2,350,000 shares of American Telephone & Telegraph stock offered to shareholders in April, expire August 1. A big subscription is likely with the stockholders, who now number approximately 500,000, taking the offer. There has been Investment buying of American Telephone & Telegraph around current prices, which are some 70 points below the high of the year.
Impasse Reached in Copper Metal
Buying of copper shares in the belief that copper metal has struck its lowest levels has been in evidence. That, of course, is for the future of business generally to show. A number of the biggest consumers would be willing to buy a lot of copper at 13 cents or a little under, while the producers are not offering much red metal at that pnee.
Investment Selling in Some Ralls
Undoubtedly, a fair amount of investment selling in railroad stocks followed the poor reports that have been made. Sellers apparently plan to get the stocks back later for less. In some cases, sales have been made against box holdings. While certain rails have been quite weak on and off for months, many had not participated to any great extent in the generally lower level for prices until within the last ten days, when some of the high class rails sold off sharply.
Many Traders Out of Stock Market
Undoubtedly, many traders who are out of the market will await a more definite turn in business before taking a hand again. The market has been * difficult.” to say the least, and many traders have closed accounts and gone away for indefinite vacations.
Wesson Oil Shows Improved Earning^
Wesson Oil & Snowdrift made a good showing m the nine months ended May 32, with profits applicable to the 600.000 common shares equal to $1 73 a share, compared with 22 cents a share for the corresponding period of 1929. The company enjoys considerable diversification of its business, and its foods and household commodities are sold in 200.000 retail stores throughout the country.
Much Short Selling In Public I tiiitie*»
Undoubtedly, considerable selling has been done by bears :n the public util.ty group on the shoits’ theory that this grc«up had not been liquidated. It probably boils itself down to the old argument of how many times earnings a stock should sell for. Some public utilities have sold high a« 40 times earnings. Many of them have had ‘sever*- declines from the top. and are being bought f<u investment purposes on a scale down.
('rude Oil Posit inn
More Favorable
Recent opinions by oil heads have been that the situation in regard to crude production is more favorable than it has been for some time. They point to the fact that California production is near its allowaWe limit of 59G 000 barrels dailv and Oklahoma is producing very close to its perm*otal. Tue Situation m Texas u*th the new pipe Lne law which went into eflet t recently looks more favorable
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.