Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 13, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 10
The stock market failed to hold its rally on Saturday. Further gains took place in some of the pivotal shares during the first half hour, but liquidation soon developed elsewhere. Eventually. the selling spread throughout the entire list, and consequently the close showed net losses. Some of the supply came from interests that had been fortunate enough to purchase during the weak periods on Friday. It was believed to represent profit-taking by traders unwilling to carry stocks over the holiday.
Short covering was a factor in the first few minutes, but the demand from that source dwindled later. The popular belief was that many of the bears had taken in their commitments on Friday because they desired to leave the Street for an extended week-end. Naturally, with the most urgent covering out of the way, the buying by the shorts reverted to the practice of picking up the stocks on scale reactions.
Before the opening, many commission houses, while failing to recommend the purchase of stocks, predicted the rally would continue throughout the two-hour session. That brought some speculative buying into the market at the start. When stocks began receding, the purchasers were among the first to dispose of their positions.
Sentiment among conservatives still is cautious. They are inclined to keep customers on the side lines until the market has demonstrated conclusively that a point of resistance has been established. Most interests continue to advise clients to adhere to the practice of reducing their long holdings on all good rallies.
Traders Bought
On Balance
Professionals and floor traders, after covering shorts in the early dealings, turned to the selling side when the market showed inability to absorb offerings. That element sold on balance.
Commission houses reported some selling by clients whose accounts were not in the host of condition, but the late reaction attracted an increased outside demand and leading firms purchased on balance.
Higher Ratio of LrOiins to Values
The ratio of brokers’ loans to the market value of securities increased during September. Statistics of the Stock Exchange show that the value of all shares listed on October 1 was S60.-143.183.105. compared with SG7.721.086.999 a month earlier, a decrease of $7,577,903,849. At the end of September, the loans to brokers totaled $3,481,452,761. a drop of $117,180,308. The ratio of loans to values on October 1 was 5 79*>. : contrasted with 5.31*"; on September 2, an increase of 0.48*>.
Dividend Omisslona Still to Come
One interest has compiled statistics which show that more than SOO corporations have omitted or reduced dividends in the nine months ended September 30. last. That is not surprising considering the condition of business and ' the reduced revenues of many concerns. Additions are likely to be made by the end of this year to the list of companies temporarily discontinuing distributions to stockholders, but in many instances such actions are believed to have been entirely discounted by the lower prices for stocks.
Banking Support More Aggressive
For several weeks, reports have been heard that scale support had come into the market from banking interests on the reactions. The comparatively orderly decline during that period in the face of heavy bear selling and liquidation of long holdings may have reflected such buying.
However, definite statements came Friday from usually well informed quarters that the banking support in the market had become aggressive. They were believed by the Street bcause the market snapped back abruptly after new lows had been established in a large number of stocks early in that session. It will be interesting to see If banking support is continued in the current week.
Shorta Returning Borrowed Stocks
Shorts were returning borrowed stocks at the end of last week. The sharp declines which occurred in the market during most of last week’s session permitted the bears to take in many of their commitments. A number were
covering on a scale. When the forced liquidation was at its peak, a large number of stocks reached levels which the bears had hoped would be seen.
In addition to covering on a scale during the breaks, heavy buying by the bears took place in the sharp rally late Friday. Naturally, as a result of those activities, it was possible for the bears to return much of the stock which bad been borrowed. However, there still is a good sized short interest in the market.
Unfounded Rumors Affected Market
Not in years has the market been confronted with so many unfounded rumors as were circulated recently. Many of them were disturbing and had considerable influence, bringing about liquidation at a tune when the general list was weak, and causing an increased supply in the face of only a limited demand.
Because one or two of the reports which had been heard proved to be correct, a natural tendency developed to pay more attention than usual to all rumors. Investigations made privately by a number of houses failed to provide confirmation for stories, but they were overlooked during the periods of extreme pessimism.
Baptism of Fire for Inxestment Trusts
While the stock market was booming during 1929, a large number of investment trusts were formed hastily. Some of them came into existence just about the time the peak was reached. Naturally, the subsequent decline in securities affected them, giving them a baptism of fire much sooner than anyone had predicted.
Steel Common Meets Long Pull Buying
Houses which always have been looked upon as representing important interests in U. S. Steel common report that evidence has appeared of long pull buying in the stock. Most of the orders have been on a scale, but the stock has been taken out of the Streep Thus far, the volume purchased has not been especially heavy, and the effect, therefore, has been negligible on the market for the premier industrial. However, it is contended that if the demand continues, it eventually must have influence, for it will reduce the floating supply in Wall Street. Those who executed the orders state that the stock is not likely to come back into the market during any minor rally.
B.-M. T. Favorite Among Tractions
Traction shares generally, whether they represent companies m this city or other cities, are not likely to be highly popular in the near future, because in most instances they must feel the effects of business recessions and unemployment in traffic and earnings.
However. Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit is one issue which is favored m that group. Students of the various unification plans are inclined to consider B.-M. T. as having the best prospects. Manhattan Railways modified guarantee stock also is being given favorable consideration.
lnv estment Interest in Allied Chcnilcul	,
Investors have been showing some interest ir» Allied Chemical recently. The stock was in supply with the remainder of the market during the weakness and reacted sharply at times. Much, of the scale buying represented accumulation for cash by small investors. The oddlot demand was larger than in several years, according to one leading investment firm. Around 5200 a share, the stock yields approximately 8% on the $6 a share annual cash dividend and the 5r; in stock being paid, providing, oi course, that the latter distribution is continued and the additional shares disposed of in the market.
Pipe Foundry’s Earnings Good
Among the low-priced stocks, U. S. Pipe & Foundry is well liked in quarters which have been close to the company for a long time. Earnings this year have been highly satisfactory thus far. and the prospects are considered bright. The company is getting its full share of the going business, and with plans calling for extensive work by municipalities, it is argued that the future will show satisfactory results. The stock, like all others, suffered from necessitous liquidation at times during the disturbing declines in the general market.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.