Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 10, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 18
If anything’, news developments over the week-end were unsatisfactory. Under the circumstances. the hears continued to press stocks for sale and caused the recording of many new lows for the movement yesterday. Trading was highly professional, hut there was an increase m public liquidation, the action of the general market being disappointing to those who had purchased a week or more ago on the theory that a good rally might begin at any time.
U. S. Steel common, after showing signs of resisting pressure for a time during the day. was forced to a new low for the reaction during the last hour. At that time, the supply came from professionals who were confident that unless there are large adjustments as of the end of May, the report on unfilled orders, to be published at noon today, will show a decrease of more than 300.000 tons.
All the standard Stocks were under pressure, heavy selling took place m many of the speculative specialties which had been prominent on the upside earlier in the year. Utilities were affected by heavy selling in United Corp, on a more insistent report that the company was planning to make an offering of additional S3 preferred stock in the near future.
Trading was comparatively limited during the first lour hours, but increased again in the final dealings when the pressure became more pronounced.-"The large volume on the reactions is not considered favorable. Call money renewed at 3r. and held at that figure all day on the Stock Exchange In outside cncles. there was a plentiful supply at 2’^*,.
It is difficult tn find an optimist at the moment Because the market has not been ab’e to stage a good rally, many who have been recommending the purchase of standard stocks on further reactions have withdrawn that advice. Some professionals anticipate a recovery within the next 48 hours, but believe it will not last long.
Trading
Commission houses sold on balance. There was little outside buying, and the selling increased as stop orders were uncovered on the reactions. Professionals and floor traders supplied the list rather heavily at time*. However, there was good short covering during decline*?, and this element was credited with buvmg on balance.	-
A\ erage*-
Stocks broke through previous resistance levels with comparative ease during recent reactions As a result, n is probable that any show of returning confidence by outsiders has been checked. Many observer* looked for good opposition from scale buying orders on the set-back, and when that failed to materialize, increased pressure was brought by bear traders
Taxes
Some say that the selling of stocks recently* was partly to raise funds for tax pay*ments due this week. However, that probably* is more of an excuse than a reason. Failure of business to improve and the continued decline in many commodities undoubtedly accounted for much of the selling which caused the reaction in the stock market.
Margin Calls
Few margin calls have been sent out thus far as a result of the decline, mainly because outsiders have been doing so httle in the market. A few stocks which suffered severe declines brought some further demands for margin put those were in the minority.
Precedent
Ecoromi’fs point out that eight major industrial and busme«s depressions since 1899. exclusive of the war period resulted .n an aver. age of seven month* elapsing from the time business, as measured* by industrial production, turned down until «tock price* began advancing again The same yardstick, considering the present business depression a* having begun last August, would indicate that the buying levels in stocks should have been reached some time in March. Present quotation* are about what they* were in that month.
Krie '*
One reason why Erie’s earnings arc making a poor showing is that comparisons are being made with the outstanding results of 1929 Freight traffic continue* substantially behind last year, but passenger business has shown signs of improvement recently. Erie is in a position to show a pxek-up in earnings as soon as traffic is nearer normal.
Is Market Oversold?
There is a growing belief m many quarters that the market has become oversold. It is significant that the view exists in some banking quarters, which are credited with close affiliation with a number of the leading industrial*. Whether such a condition prevails will be shown by* tne market itself as soon as a good rally starts A recovery on short covering will not be lasting but if the market is heavily oversold, it could move forward quite impressively.
Factors
Many* influences have aided the bear party recently, including the character of industrial reports. car loading figure* and dividend omissions or reductions. Even the unusually cheap money, being attributed entirely to the lack of commercial demands reflecting lessened business activities, has tended to increase'* bearish sentiment. Breaking resistance points also has helped the pessimistic element, because it resulted in uncovering stop loss orders.
United States Steel
Because the report of unfilled orders as of May 31 will be issued at noon today, no attempt has been made to pick up United States Steel common by outsiders who have been considering purchase of the stock. After the report is out. there may be .short covering and some new buying on a scale. The Street is looking for a good sized decrease in tonnage.
American Smelting
With American Smelting earnings more than $3 a share on the common stock in the first four months of this year, it is natural to predict that, even with the lower price of copper, ’ the company can show fully $6 a share for the entire year. smelting is one of the stocks which is likely to be chosen for leadership in the metal group when conditions improve toward the end of the year.
Prices of all metals have gone down with other commodities and products, but American Smelting does not suffer as much as others because the company has the advantage of refining and selling for other organizations. Of course, reduced demand will be reflected in earnings.
Radio
Wall Street was disappointed by the omission of the first quarter’s report by the Radio Corp. It is known generally, however, that the statement would have made unpleasant reading. Some say a substantial operating deficit would have been shown as a result of selling mven-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.