Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 2, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 14
A Daily Column of Comment
the smallest decline was recorded in the rails, which were down 7.1%. The market value of the 100 stocks as of September 30, was but 59% ot the appraisal on August 29,	1929. which
was the peak of the bull market. At the same time, the total was 7.7% above the absolute lows registered on those stocks on November 13, last year.
would be little to encourage bulls in the revenues for July and August, but it was maintained that September would show considerable improvement and bring up the total for the quarter. Now, with the final month of the period ended, and but slight betterment in business. it is natural that many downward revisions in estimates of earnings for the third quarter should be made.	<
Reduced Interest	j
by Savings Banks
Arguments are heard to the effect that the reduction in interest payments by savings banks to 4* < troBk the former 4’£% w’ill help tho market for securities. A growing belief is that such action will result in bring’ng an increased investment demand into high grade bonds and preferred stocks, which eventually will spread into the standard common shares.
The point is made that savings banks by reducing their interest rates will make investors seek a better return in the market, with the prospects of enhancing the principal.
Weather Delayed	I
Seasonal Buying
Economists say some delay In seasonal buying w’as caused in September by the unusually hot weather which prevailed at times in most sections of the country. They point out that there was little incentive for merchants to place orders for fall and winter goods with the weather warm. It is admitted, of course, that some industries were aided by the heat, mainly the ice, ice cream and dairy products lines.
Car Loadings Down Again	*
Considerable - disappointment was expressed in Wall Street over the decrease of 23,201 in the freight car loadings for the week ended September 20 as compared with the preceding seven days. It had been hoped that the trend m freight movement would be upward. As compared with the corresponding week of 1929 and 1928, there were decreases of 214,583 and 191.619 cars, respectively.
Anjericnn Can’s Extra Dividend
Sentiment concerning the declaration of the extra dividend on American Can is rather mixed While many interpret the action as reflecting the confidence of the management in the outlook. some of the bears Insist that the payment was voted to affect the market- Those close to the American Can organization contend that the officials are not interested in the action of the stock market, and add that the extra would not have been declared unless the management had felt it justified under existing and prospective conditions.
September’s Decline In Leading Stocks
The market appraisal of 100 representative common stocks declined $3,961,067,000. or 13 3% m September to $25,878,239,000 at the end of the month, according to the compilation by ^Frazier Jelke & Co. Each of the 13 subgroups constituting the index showed a decline for the period. The largest loss was in the amusement shares, which dropped 24.9*while
Stocks staged a good recovery yesterday onK many traders insisted that such a movement was long over-due. At- the opening, it wss evident that buying orders had accumulated over night. They brought the initial gains, causing short covering and cancellation of selling orders by some of the longs. Naturally, stocks made a ready response. Talk was heard of good support having developed, but it lacked confirmation and few market observers admitted that such buying was in evidence. They held to the view th*v* the market hnd become over-sold, and that technically the recovery was a most natural development.
Leading stocks included the favorites, which had been showing some signs of resistance to the downward trend in recent sessions. Substantial upturns also took place in a number of more speculative shares which had been under bear pressure. Gillette. Worthington, Case, Byers. Houston OU and others were spectacular performers at times. Sentiment during the day w’as helped by improvement in the grain markets. Trading fell off sharply at times from the volume of recent sessions when selling was persistent.
Few advices to buy appeared after the close. Most interests were not inclined to recommend following the rally at once. They stiU adhered to the view’ that the market should be permitted to prove its ability to maintain rallying tendencies for more than a day or two. Those who had long positions were urged to place stop orders in the market. The point was made that limits could be raised as further advances occurred. while at the same time accounts would, be safeguarded against any adrupt reversal in the trend.
Commission Houses Sold on Balance
Although many commission houses had buying orders at the start, the higher prices attracted profit-taking and liquidation from outsiders, and the leading firms w’ere sellers on balance.
Professionals and floor traders covered shorts actively. Late in the day. new- short selling came, but that element was credited with having purchased on balance.
Many Bull Pools
Ha\ e Disbanded	1
Many bull pools that were organised months ago for operations in individual stocks have disbanded. That action was forced by the condition of the market. Attempts to support their favorites resulted in long positions of several et the groups becoming larger than had been looked for when the pools were formed. With the market working downiw-’ard so steadily, it was logical that some of the groups should dispose of their stocks, accept their losses- and disband.
Pessimistic Predictions On Quarter’s Earnings
Pessimistic predictions concerning corporation earnings for the quarter ended Tuesday predominate. The failure of business to pick up to the extent forecast last month is responsible for current prognostications. Earlier in the third quarter, it had been adm‘ited that there
Dividend Talk About Texas Corp.
Considerable discussion concerning the dividend on Texas Corp, has accompanied selling in the stock this wreek. Interests that have first hand information on the company state that earnings this year will about equal the io annual dividend requirement, ano believe that it will not be changed when the directors meet next month.
*McKoe*i»ort T»n Plate Resisted Liquidation
McKeesport Tin Plate has been giving ground grudgingly at times in the recent general market weakness. That was due to scale support, w’hich. came into the stock and absorbed the forced liquidation Part/of the buying was predicated on the knowledge that operations of the company are on a high scale, due to the steady increase in the demand for tin containers, in which the company has l»een sharing proportionately in recent weeks.
For the first six months of this year, the company reported $5.05 a share on its stock, compared w’ith $3.61 in the corresponding period of 1929. Estimates still are being made that between $9 and $10 a share will be shown for this year. Because of the regular $4 a share annual dividend rate, and the fact that three extras of 50 cents each have been paid th*s year, the stock has appealed to some investment interests.
Forced Selling In General Refractories
The attitude of interests that were optimistic on General Refractories some time ago is unchanged. They contend that the decline in the stock has been in sympathy with the action of the general market. Part of the selling was believed to be of forced character, being liquidation by outsiders who were carrying other stocks in their long positions and who had received margin calls during the decline. Talk still is heaid of comparatively good business because of repair work in steel plants and blast furnaces. Rumors persist that the company also has been getting contractr from natural gas concerns and public utilities, although details are lacking.
Westinghouse Buying Brtter Than Selling
Westinghouse Electric has been one of the stocks which was in rather heavy supply at times recently, due to discussions of comparatively unsatisfactory earnings for the third quarter as compared with the corresponding period.of 1929. However, market students state that in the past few days the buying has been considerably better than the selling. They add that some interests that disposed of stock at much higher prices. have been replacing their lines on a scale m recent sessions.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.