Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 15, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Persistent liquidation characterized the stock market on Saturday's short session. There was some short selling- hut it was sale of the long stocks that brought about the decline which resulted in many stocks hitting new lows. Some selling doubtless came from banking sources, for the general concensus is that marginal trading in Wall Street brokerage circles is on a well liquidated basis.
The decline was orderly but distinctly persistent. Pivotal stocks such as Steel suffered severely. with several large lots sold.
Several old-line rail shares were under pressure and the public utilities sold off sharply.
Belief is that marginal calls will not be heavy as Wall Street customers have been doing business in a limited way for some time and the brokerage houses have been careful to keep their margins in strong shape.
Cotton was weak again with some new lows established and softness was displayed in all commodity markets.
Many investment orders under the market were filled at the declining prices. Brokers say that there are increasing totals of odd lo( and full lot investment orders accumulating at even lower prices.
Commission Houses
Sold on Balance
Many stop loss orders were uncovered on the break in the early dealings and this caused an increase in the liquidation through cominission houses. There was only a moderate amount of outside buying. Leading firms sold on balance.
Professionals and floor traders were active sellers during the first hour, but ^ie lower prices presented covering opportunities, and as many bears had scale buying orders in tbe market to close out their short commitments, this element was a buyer on balance.
Comparing Bonds With 1920 Trend
Bond students report that there is J* distinct similarity in the recent course of average bond prices to trend pursued in 1920. Average bond prices are less than 2 points from the low level reached last year. In 1920. when a secondary reaction in the bond market brought the average to about the same limits above the previous bottom a substantial upturn occurred subsequently. Should this precedent be repeated in the near future 'the influence on the stock market would be construed m favorable.
Bond Trading Not Excessive
Much has been heard of the activity in the bond market while lower levels were being established In this connection a bond house points out that the volume of trading in domestic corporation bonds has been running only about 57.000.000 daily, or the equivalent of approximately 100,000 shares of average priced stocks.
While the liquidation during periods of reaction has been persistent. It is maintained that with the volume as it has been maintained the selling can hardly be described as wholesale. Much of the decline is due to the lack of investment buying.
Short Covering on Larger Scale
Short covering was on a larger scale toward, the end of last week. Not only did outsiders take in their commitments, but some of the consistent bears who had maintained short positions were inclined to cover part of their obligations as the lower prices were being reached.
Those who had put out stocks several weeks ago were covering when the announcement of the closing of the Bank of United States was made. It was this scale demand which was responsible for keeping the subsequent decline within comparatively reasonable bounds while liquidation was in progress
Local Pig Iron Dealer* Encouraged
Following several weeks of fairly good pig iron sales, new inquiries which have appeared in the market during the past few days, involving approximately 7.500 tons, have encouraged dealer* in the local territory. The main hope is that a better price range will be established in the near future.	,
Judging from the interest shown in the pig iron market it is logical to believe that foundries apparently had not fully covered their first quarter requirements. Considerable significance is attached to the latest inquiries because thev
have come out at a time when a lull because of inventory taking would have been looked upon , as normal. Probably most pig iron consumers have small stocks on hand and are inclined to replenish their supplies.
Good Support In Pivotal Share*
Despite the declines which were recorded during the past week there was good scale support in some of the pivotal shares, particularly in. U. S. Steel common. American Can and others in that banking group. Market observers haw* been impressed with the action of these stocks which had been used regularly by the bears for attacks when the efforts were bing made to depress the entire list.
Stfcrl Corporation** Fourth Quarter
Wall Street is already speculating as to what showing will be made in the United States Steel Corp, in the final quarter of the year. Various estimates have been made in trading quarters, but responsible Interests, who are always conservative in attempting to make predictions, have not yet been willing to express an opinion on the earnings.
While it is true that operations have declined, and are not likely to show any definite turn for the better until the middle of next month at the earliest, interests in the corporation appear to be encouraged by the tendency in the industry to hold minimum quotations. In the long run this will mean improvement in operations and earnings for tbe corporation as well as the other large interests in the steel industry.
General Motors Meeting Demand
There has been evidence of a better demand in General Motors and reports circulating around the Street have been that heavy scale accumulation has been in progress in recent sessions when reactions have been general. The stock has shown more stability than many other issues. Fart of the demand has been attributed to traders who had been carrying a short position for a long time.
General Motors this year has done better than most of its competitors. Earnings m the njne months ended September 30, last, reflecting the smaller demand, were dourn about 41'7 from the 1929 period, but this compares with, a drop of 79'«. for nine other companies xn that field.
Worthington Pump’i Strengthened Position
Worthington Pump has been strengthening its position right along. Progress has been made in clearing up back dividends on its preferred shares. Its financial condition is strong and unfilled orders are highly satisfactory. Because of this situation, there has been comment in some quarters that the company could afford to pay a dividend on the common stock with.n the next 12 months or so. Interests close to the management insist that this is looking too far into the future at the moment and are not inclined to seek official comment on the matter.
Building Program	**
to Aid Walworth
Walworth has suffered from general business conditions this year and earnings will not come ! up to earlier expectations. However, the company should benefit ultimately from the proposed government and municipal construction programs.
Such business is not reflected in orders to Walworth for some time after the work is started. as the company’s products, valves, fittings, etc., are not used until the later stages of building construction. The company has been reducing its inventories in line with the conservative policy of the jobbers through which it sells After the inventory period xs over a better demand from the jobbers is hoped for.
Canada Dry Dividend Talk More General
More general discussion is heard regarding the dividend probabilities of Canada Dry. The low price of the stock, at which the yield is approximately 13'7. has been responsible for some doubt about the maintenance of the rate in speculative quarters. There has been nothing official on the subject. However, market interests contend that at the current level the stock has discounted any action toward reducing the return to stockholders. Tbe company has encountered .some sales resistance this year, which is logical in a period of business depression This condition is looked upon by well informed interests as temporary.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.