Sharp Swings: Uprush in Steel Following New 1930 Low Brings Rally Near Close Sharp Swings Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 12, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Sharp Swings
Uprush iu Steel Folloiciurj A'rtf IHBU Uozz: Brinr/s Hall if S'ear Close
Stocks were highly irregular and nervous yesterday, following the abrupt recovery in Tuesday’s la^te trading. Steel common sank to a new 1930 low at ISO >- early in the final hour, then staged a spectacular rally a few minutes before the close on appearance of an order for 50.000 shares at 161. Other stocks moved in sympathy with Steel, but the recoveries were neither complete nor fully sustained, and the close left the trading element decidedly puzzled.
Reduction in the short interest by Tuesday’s covering movement was acutely felt yesterday. Bearish professionals took advantage of this impairment of internal conttlons to renew pressure on the principal trading issues and had no difficulty in wiping out mbst of the recoveries from the recent lows.
■i,__,	•	•	•
' ‘ Included among the stocks which broke through the levels of resistance established on Tuesday’s drives were American Can and Bethlehem. J. 1- Case again developed pronounced Continued on 1 wmtv-9ten6 Pafft
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Cowfiatted /rowt Firvt Peg*
TrmlmrfTT. suffering a perpendicular drop which carried it down more than 20 points from the previous ewi
Somewhat improved sentiment regarding the outlook for the steel trade was created by the statement of the Iron Age that leaders of the industry were anticipating a turn for the better in steel buying within 30 to 60 days, and were predicting that fall production would range between 75% to 80%, against approximately 70% at this time.
Large blocks of Warner Brothers, Loew’s and Fox Film were thrown on the market, and new lows on the reaction were seen in stocks of this class. Despite the lack of demand for call accommodations, the officii rate was maintained at 3%, but outside accommodations continued in large supply at 2%%.
• • •
Renewed pressure on the main body of stocks during the	hour’s »yarding was an outcome
of the filing in professional quarters that technical conditions had been impaired by the hurried covering movement at Tuesday's close. This rebound was a natural sequel to the heavy and widely scattered short selling which took place Monday, and in the first two or three hour* Tuesday. When the bears attempted to cancel their contracts for the decline, they found a limited amount of selling orders on specialists’ books, with the result that the recovery set an excessively rapid pace.
In the belief that this swift revulsion had left the market’s understructure in a weakened state, experienced operators renewed pressure on pivotal shares, and succeeded in forcing goodsized setbacks from the highs of the rally in pivotal shares. However, this fresh drive encountered much more stubborn resistance than had been met by attempts of a similar nature since the middle of last week.
Important interests were accumulating standard stocks on the theory that business was scraping bottom. Considerable speculative buying also took place for the account of nimble traders figuring that a further rally was indicated.
Industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages closed. Tuesday, at 257.29, an advance of 6.53 points on the day, which represented the recapture of 26.8% of the entire ground lost in the seven trading days since May 29. when the compilation stood at 275.07. Chart readers argued that the industrials were entitled to a rally of at least 50% of the ground previously lost, and this reasoning brought support into the popular trading vehicles on the renewed recessions.
« ■ •
Weekly steel reviews again relied on the activity in the pipe line trade to furnish the optimistic side of their analyses, added to which was the appearance of large inquiry for structural steel. Big producers of large diameter pipe are now booked ahead until practically the end of the year. In the past eleven weeks or so there have been nearly 1,000,000 tons of line pipe business placed, and the rate of activity does not seem to be lessening. Structural steel inquiries, amounting to 112,000 tons, were the largest for any week, either this year or last, and give promise of important contracts to be placed later.
These strong points have not altered the picture, however, and other lines have declined enough to continue the slow recession of output. Railroad buying, which is needed now that specifications against old contracts have practically all been made, is not appearing in anything like substantial volume. The approach of the slack months makes it almost certain that automobile producers will do little toward increasing commitments.
Nevertheless, there are predictions that within the next month or two there will be a turn which may bring rate of output to 75% or 80% by fall. The present decline does not seem to have been definitely checked, however, and there is some disagreement in the industry as to just when the bottom will be reached.
The price situation is not quite stable as yet. but concessions are not as large, and there is more semblance of stability than a few weeks ago.
• • •
There has been liquidation in Vulcan Detinning recently because of the unsatisfactory conditions prevailing in the tin market. Stocks of tin in the United Kingdom are at a high record and consuming demand has been lacking, resulting in sharp reductions in prices. Vulcan in the past has suffered reduced earnings because of sharp declines in tin. Steel scrap, another of the company’s products, is quoted about $3 a ton below last year’s levels. The management of Vulcan Detinning has improved the financial position of the company considerably in the past two years, and has attempted to protect it against weakness in tin and scrap, but despite this it appears likely that earnings will be affected this year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.