Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 23, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 16
Action of the market yesterday indicated that the small rally on Saturday was merely a technical affair due to short covering. From the opening; there was sufficient selling tn leading stocks to more than supply what buying orders developed- Trading was on a small scale during the first four hours, but the trend was steadily douTjward, This discouraged operators who had been hoping for a rally, and postponed the buying which many had predicted would come into the market early this week.
It was during the last hour that the pressure became heavy. About the only demand at that time came from shorts who were covering on a downward scale, and these bids were being readily filled as the supply increased. Leading stocks, such as Steel common, American Can and others broke to new lows for the movement and their action affected other issues. Stop orders were uncovered on the sharp decline, further increasing the selling at a time when the demand was very limited.	i
Most comments were in connection with po- | litical conditions abroad, and it is evident that ' there is considerable nervousness in all markets, >i In addition to the break in stocks, there was -weakness in raw silk, crude rubber, cotton and i grains at times during the day.	I
Sentiment is more pessimistic than it has ! been in some time. No one is now advising the [ purchase of stocks, the popular attitude being i to wait until the market has definitely indicated I the establishment of resistance levels. Conservative observers favor accepting profits and re- , duemg long commitments on any rally which ' develops m the next few days.
Traders Sold on Balance
The market is highly professional. For that reason traders’ activities are being closely watched. This element sold stocks persistently, and despite some short covering, the sales exceeded purchases.
Commission houses did little more business than in recent weeks Some liquidation was reported. but the lower prices supplied some of the buying orders which had been placed in leading stocks at concessions, and the larger firms bought on balance.
Traders Control
The Market
Fluctuations in stocks are almost exclusively in the control of the traders With these operators bearish, it is not surprising to sec lower prices. Rallies have not held, and those who covered shorts two weeks ago on the theory that a good upturn was in the making, have been the most active sellers recently. There has been little resistance on the reactions, the scale buying orders in the market being for small lots, and not sufficient to check pressure when the market was put to a test.
Foreign News Is Having Adverse Effect
While some of the unfavorable rumors occasionally circulated regarding conditions in various European countries have been shown to be unfounded, the fact remains that foreign news has been having its effect on the stock market here recently.
Most of the advices regarding business conditions abroad are pessimistic. With worldwide conditions as they are there is no tendency on the part of European investors to come into this country for American securities, even though many are of the opinion that the issues are selling at attractive levels.
Motor Slackness Important Factor
Slackness in the motor industry, which is a , large consumer of many products, has naturally been felt all along the line, leaving a wake of I unemployment which is being emphasized be' cause of similar conditions in other lines.
i Interests who have made a thoiough in-■ vestigation of the motor industry say leadiug • authorities are not looking for any change for the better until next year. It is admitted that much depends upon solution of the unemployment problem and other factors which enter the situation.
Brooklyn-Manhattan Has Acted Well
The action of Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit in the market has been satisfactory, with periods of buying in the stock having the appearance of accumulation. The buying probably is based on the good earnings results shown so far and the belief that steps will be taken in the local transit situation which will be decidedly beneficial to the company. Growth of the population in the territory served has been a large factor in the affairs of the company for some time.
Railroads May Be in Accumulation Area
In reliable quarters, the opinion is held that the railroad stocks may be in, or at least approaching, an accumulation area. Car loadings I are likely to increase between now and the . end of the year, because the fall season always > has shown improvement in freight traffic. However, the gains are not likely to be as large as some predicted a few months ago, because the business situation has not recorded the extent of change for the better which was looked for. Quite a number of market interests believe that buying the rails at this time would involve less risk than most industrials, however.
All Watching
V. S. Steel
Every market interest at present is watching the action of U. S. Steel. This stock has always been considered the logical leader and its price movements often affect the entire list.
Realizing this, bears have been pressing the stock for sale for some time, working on the theory that ability to break steel common through nearby resistance points always brings selling into other issues, and gives them an opportunity to cover shorts all around.
RaytHsstna-Manhat tan Discounting Poor ■Earnings
The action of Raybestos-Manhattan has been indicating that it is discounting much reduced i earnings. The stork was declining recently when other issues wore holding, although there has been no evidence of any concerted pressure. ‘ Support has been lacking and the stock now appears to be without sponsorship.
1 Unfavorable earnings are likely to be re-i ported for the third and fourth quarters. The company does considerable business in the auto-t mobile field, and it has naturally felt the adverse influence of the reduced auto production. Most market interests believe that Raybestos will do little more than cover its dividend needs ' this year, which explains why the stock has ‘ been selling on a high yield on its current S2 60 ' annual dividend rate.
i
'< California Packing , May Earn S3 a s*hare j While admitting the difficulty of predicting I earnings of California Packing, since so much * depends upon conditions m the immediate future. some interests still believe the company can show in the neighborhood of $5 a share in tiie current year. There has been practically
■ no outside interest in the stock for some time, i because leading observers have been advising ; customers to keep out of the issue until earn-I mgs show some definite sign of improving. , This has not yet come in sight. A moderate amount of liquidation from time to time recently disclosed a rather limited market for the stock.
Third Quarter Earning1* Discussed
More discussions regarding the third quarter earnings prospects are now heard than ever before. and these are having their influence on the market. Because of the many bearish predictions on individual companies, there has been a , moderate amount of outside liquidation in various stocks i ecently.
The general tendency is to revise previous third quarter piedictions downward This is logical because many based i*'cir predictions on a better showing in September than m duly and August, winch if borne out would hold j up the average for the third quarter. With the ; improvement coming more slowly than was an’ ticipated. the results for the period v* ill be dis-l appointing.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.