Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 9, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Sharp reactions came in the stock market yesterday as a result of various unfavorable developments which started a wave of selling from the professional element which has been fighting the market for some rime. Among the influences were the passing of the dividend by Warner Bros, and the announcement from Pittsburgh that V. S- Steel Corp, had reduced its ingot production about 3% from a week ago. with the current rate at 61%. At the beginning of the week the corporation was running at better than 64%.
Aggressive bear pressure developed, and this uncovered many stop orders which had been put in the market at prices materially under those recently prevailing, but at levels above which many students expected the market to encounter good resistance. The fact that such points were broken through on some increase in volume resulted in considerable selling by longs who had previously held to their position in the face of attacks fivm the pessimistic traders.
There were abnormally thin markets in some of the specialties and these stocks responded to selling with substantial losses. Houston Oil. Vanadium. Case and others which had been moved ahead sharply in the past were unusually weak and suffered heavy declines.
Call money was easy again, renewing and holding at 2% on the Stock Exchange, with a liberal supply outside ofmoney seeking employment over the week-end at concessions from the so-called official rate.
Sentiment is even more cautious than it has been in the past few days. The ease with which stocks were put down strengthened the resolution of many to remain on the side lines. Most observers recommend that advantage be taken of rallies to reduce long commitments, because they insist that the market has demonstrated its inability to hold recoveries and its sensitiveness to news developments, which do not promise to show much improvement in the next few weeks.
Commission Houses Sold on Balance
A moderate amount of outside investment buying was checked by the action of the market. In the afternoon the lower prices induced more liquidation than has been in evidence in some time and the leading firms were sellers on balance.
Professionals and floor traders were unusually active. They were heavy sellers during the forenoon and succeeded in depressing the market to a point where public liquidation increased. giving them an opportunity to cover many shorts at a substantial profit xn the late dealings. The covering was heavy anu as a result this element was credited with buying on balance.	'
Decrease in Brokers* Loans Insignificant
Although the decrease of SI4.000.000. or 4-10 of 1% in brokers* loans in the past week was insignificant, many continue to insist that the reduction in loans in recent weeks reflects the tendency of outsiders to keep out of the market. and therefore can be considered important,
Detailed changes were again decidedly interesting. They showed that local banks, which increased loans by §50,000.000, were still filling the gap caused by the withdrawal of funds by other lenders. Borrowings from out-of-town institutions were down §51.000.000. while those from •‘others” decreased §13.000,000.
Segregated figures showed that demand loans had decreased §40.000.000 to $2,578,000.-OQf». while time borrowings were up S25.000.000 to $635,000,000.
Reserve Ratio Down In This District
Feature of the report on Federal Reserve ratios was a decrease of 3.6% at New York, which reported 84.1%. compared with 87.7% in the preceding week and 69.1% a year ago. At Boston, a slight gain was shown to 83.3%. against 52.5% a week ago and 81.7% last year. Chicago is at 87.2%. contrasted with 85.7% last week and 83.1% in 1929. For thejentire system, the ratio is down fractionally to 83.1%. compared with 83.5% in the preceding week and 74.6% last year.
Contest of Traders	—
Still In Progress *
Th*' contest between-the bull and bear traders still is in progress. That is evident from the action of the market. Advances encounter resistance from new bear pressure, and when stocks are forced downward, scale support is in evidence, sometimes for the account of those who had been attempting to bring about a sustained recovery and at other times from shorts who cover their commitments when a moderate profit is in sight. Recently, it has been impossible for either side to attract a public following. Leading firms have been trying to keep
customers out of the market until stocks have worked out of their trading range in either direction.
Gradual Reduction
In Inventories
' With consumption exceeding production in i some lines, gradual -reduction has been reported in the inventories of many of tbe large industrial j organizations. Manufacturers are working on i their stocks of materials on hand, and are not replacing their depleted surplus. Ordinarily, that could be considered a rather favorable indication. When more confidence in the business outlook* develops, some of tbe manufacturers will take steps to replenish their stocks and increase their inventories to a point more in line with the activities of their plants.
Public Utilities
Not in Favor ‘	.
It is apparent from discussions heard all over the financial district that public utility shares are not in favor at present. Traders •have continued to supply these stocks on the theory that most of them, on the basis of earnings and prospects, are selling too high, when compared with other stocks.
Unfounded reports had it that a well-known advisory service was preparing a pessimistic study of the utility situation. That rumor was widely circulated and is believed to have checked buying by some of the traders, who were credited with making preparations to cover short obligations put out at somewhat higher levels a week or ten days ago.
Grigsby Grunow Meeting Improved Demand
Variou? explanations have been made for the demand which has appeared in Grigsby Grunow.
; Probably the best reason for the buying was the advance in the stock of Majestic Household Util-j ities Corp, recently- Grigsby Grunow owns about 125.090 of the 500,000 shares of the Majestic company, and the advance in the latter naturally
*	improved the investment position of Grigsby. 1 Majestic Household Utilities Corp, is said to I have prospects of becoming an important factor - in the electric refrigerator business.
i
I Melville Shoe Co.’s
j Earnings Favorable
| Melville Shoe has maria a good record of i earnings thus far in tbe current year. For the I first half, the results were in excess of the §2 [ a share annual dividend requirements on the ! stock. July sales are reported to have been ! 22% in excess of the corresponding month last .year, and a gain of 16% in the first seven months i of the current year was reported. The com; pany operates the John Ward, Thom McAn, i Rival and Traveler shoe stores. It does not I manufacture shoes.
[ Wheat Advance Causes Buying in Baking Shares
Quiet buying has been coming into some of the baking shares on the advance in the wheat market. The point is made that higher prices for wheat will curtial outside price competition I in bread and other baking products from small ‘bakers. Reports indicate that leading users of
■	wheat were good buyers of their Hour require; meats in recent months.
Selling Waves
■	in Gillette	-
; Waves of selling have come into Gillette in ithe past week, and the stocks at times has , been dependent upon support from the shorts, who have been covering part of their obligations. : Rumors are heard that the company has been i 3 ccumulating some of its stock in the open ; market, but if that is correct, the buying must
•	have been on a scale down.
Commercial Investment Trust
Made Favorable Showing
:	Commercial Investment Trust made a favor-
able showing in the first half of this year, when
, net income was $4,738,683. compared with §4,042.116 in the corresponding period of 1929.
I Several months ago, great concern was expressed over instalment buying, but the report of Commercial •Investment Trust indicates that j the public generally is using 1930 to pay off | obligations, and is putting itself in shape to i spend money more freely when conditions in business and trade improve. When such purchasing power is released, the benefits will be felt
; in the automobile, radio and other industries.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.