Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 3, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Abreast of the Market
^4 Daily Column of Comment
Credit ease, as reflected by the reduction, in tne rediscount rate of the New York Federal Reserve Bank to 3% after Thursday’s close, failed to check the declining’ tendency in the stock market. There was a moderate amount of buying in the first few minutes after the opening, but it was soon indicated that the supply was still large and the reactionary trend resumed- Some temporary rallies occurred as shorts covered commitments at times, but the recoveries failed to hold, and when this demand was satisfied prices worked lower again.
Steel common again bore the brunt of the selling. Several times the issue rallied from its lowest, but toward the end the liquidation became heavy again and a new low was established. Fart of the selling came as a result of the announcement that the corporation’s wire and nail subsidiary had reduced its prices $2 to $3 a ton to conform with quotations which had been made on actual orders recently by competitors. With the most popular industrial acting badly, it was only logical that outside selling should increase in other shares.
Call money renewed at 3,i:rr. There was a plentiful supply and shortly after midday tbe rate	reduced to 3*7r. This had only a tem-
porary influence on the market, because bears insisted that the low rates for funds emphasized the lessened business activities and therefore could not be construed as favorable.
It is difficult to find an optimist in the financial district. Most observers maintain that the market has not yet indicated a change m its trend and they are therefore urging clients to take advantage of any rally to reduce long commitments. Buying advices are entirely lacking just now.
Trading
Commission houses, judging by the experiences of the larger firms, were sellers on. balance. Liquidation by outsiders increased as stoporders were uncovered, and this more than offset the new demand on a scale during reactions.
Professionals and floor traders supplied the list when rallies were in progress. However, this element had little difficulty in covering shorts and did so actively while the declines were in progress. They purchased on balance as a result.
Brokers* Loans
Increase of $57,000,000. or nearly 1.4fr in brokers' loans, came as a surprise to many in the financial district, because it had been generally predicted that as a result of the decline m the stock market a decrease in loans would be shown.
Segregated figures showed an increase of S127.000.000 in the loans for the account of member banks, a decrease of $39,000,000 in borrowings from others and a drop of $30,000,000 tn those from out-of-town banks. Demand loans now amount to $3,697,000,000. compared with S3.663.000.000 in the preceding week, an increase of $34,000,000, while time borrowings are at $577,000,000, against $554,000,000, a gain of $23,000,000 in the week.
Odd-Lot Buying
Ono of the large odd-lot houses reports that the public has been taking stocks out of the market in the past few weeks. There was similar buying for investment during the October-November break, according to this firm.
Re-Discount Rate
Reduction in the re-discount rate of the New York Reserve Bank to 3^, while viewed as favorable by those optimistic for the long pull, did not have much influence in the market. What little buying developed at the opening was readily supplied by the offerings which came over-night.
Of course, with the market reacting, the bears advanced the argument that the cut in the re-discount rate was due to the lessened industrial activities which have reduced the demand for funds. They contended that if business had been active there would have been no change in the rate. This view ignores entirely the fact that Continental European banks have reduced their rates recently.
Buildintt Activities
For many years officials of American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Manufacturing have been keeping records showing that ’’about six months after interest rates turn downward building awards become more active.” Money began to ease late m October, so that if this precedent is to be followed there should be a normal recovery in building activities in the near future. This applies particularly to housing. because most other types of building are running at a high rate.
Resene Ratios
Federal reserve ratios continue to show improvement. For the system it is now at 82.5rr, compared with 81.8'< in the previous week and 73 3'; at this time last year New York is up to 84.3*~;. against 82' last week and 79 2^; a jear ago. At Boston the reserve is S4 3f.f. contrasted with 838r< in the preceding week and 64	in 1929. Chicago reports 88 lr;. com-
pared with 87 5rr a week ago and 83 3rc last year.
Continental Oil "
Point is made that Continental Oil has increased speculative appeal as a result of the leasing arrangement just made with the Texas Pacific	Trust on 145.000 acres in six coun-
ties of Texas covering wildcat areas. At times in the past there has been considerable activity in Continental.
Loews, Inc.
Rumors of an increased dividend for stockholders of Loew’s. Inc., have been heard in Wall Street recently. They are based apparently on the expansion in earnings in the current year. For the 28 weeks ended March 14, last, the company showed $5.65 a share, compared with $3.50 in the same period a year ago. With such results it is argued that something more than the present basis of $3 a share regular and $1 extra annually would be justified.
Utility Mergers
In quarters which have been following the public utilities for some time it is stated that tho time is approaching when some important merger announcendents are likely to be made. It is contended that within 60 to 90 days there should be developments along these lines which may again increase the interest in the utilities and make them market leaders. Merger talk has been prevalent in the utilities for some time.
American Locomotive
American Locomotive broke through to a new low again with the selling persistent, despite some rather heavy short covering around the 70 level. Whereas it was the hope of the management that the $8 a share dividend could be maintained this year, the report now is the company is planning to cut the distribution to $4 a share.
A complete change has occurred in the Locomotive picture. Ordexs for engines from the railroads have fallen off. with very few coming out, and in view of the reductions in
gross revenues of the railroads the carriers are not expected to place contracts for motive power in the coming months Old locomotives are being repaired and the larger systems are doing this work in their own shops.
Waldorf
Earnings of Waldorf so far this year have shown improvement over the like period of 1929. Discussions of a merger involving the company are being heard again, and there has been some buying in anticipation of such a development. Part of the buying has been coming from commission houses with connections in New England.
Frocter & Gamble
On several occasions Frocter & Gamble has given an unusually impressive demonstration of strength. It was evident that when buying appeared the stock was in rather scant supply. Any turn in tbe general market is likely to see additional purchasing of the stock because it has attracted the attention, of observers who will watch its action closely.
Continental Diamond Fibre
Business of Continental Diamond Fibre was comparatively slow in the first two months of the year, but since then there has been a material improvement. However, the results of the first quarter wcie not favorable from a comparative standpoint. Officials of the company are said to be confident betterment will continue in the coming months and that for the full year the results will exceed those of 1929. Reports are heard that scale buying orders have been placed in the stock for the account of interests in a position to know the facts.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.