Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 16, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Shorts Harf difficulty in covering their commitments on the Stock Exchange yesterday. Toward the close, the scramble to purchase stocks was so active that .sensational advances were recorded. Many of the standard stocks moved ahead sharply, which brought covering into the more speculative issues and they also rose in ex impressive manner. Despite ^reports of improved buying*, it was contended that the demand came principally from the bears. In the last hour, the market was aided bp information that a well-known market adviser ^yas preparing a statement to clients favoring the accumulation of standard stocks.
During the forenoon, the bears made another attempt to depress the list by concentrating' pressure on the copper stocks. Emphasis was placed on the further reduction in tbe price of the metal a day or so ago. and the supply was sufficient to cause rather sharp set-backs in the leading metal shares. The fact that the weakness in the coppers did not spread to other* shares, which showed good resistance to selling, was disappointing to the bears. It was tbe signal for the beginning of the short covering movement.
Market sentiment is somewhat improved, although still unusually cautious. Most observers were advising customers to take profits on the good bulges which develop. They do not favor the buying side until tbe leading issues pass through resistance levels on volume. Most firms are cautioning clients against adopting the short side, and have been urging them to cover whatever short obligations they have outstanding.
Commission Houses	,
Sold on Balance	'
Tbe higher prices again attracted liquidation and profit-taking from the public. Leading firms were sellers on balance.
Professionals and floor traders, after testing the market during the*- forenoon by offering stocks, turned to the buying side to cox’cr shorts. That element purchased on balance.
Brokers’ Loan Decrease Smaller Than Predicted
Decrease of $59,000,000, or 1.8%, in the brokers* loans of the Federal Reserve Bank reported late Thursday was smaller than - thb Street had been predicting. Forecasts, based on the fact that the market had been quite reactionary during tbe period covered, were for a drop of as much as $100,000,000. 4 Careful students. however, believe the decline was satisfactory in view of the small volume of dealings.
Detailed figures show that local banks withdrew some of the funds they had been lending m the Street in recent weeks to take care of the smaller sums available from other sources. J* decrease of $73,000,000 in loans from local member banks was reported. On the other band, out-of-town institutions reported an increase of $11.000.000 and tbe loans from •‘others” were up $3,000,000.
A decrease of $65,000,000 in call loans was recorded, these borrowings now amounting to $2,513,000,000. There was a® increase of $7.000.000 in time loans'To $042,000,000.
Traders Watching Resistance Points	,
Traders who have done little recently except go with the trend and accept moderate profits will watch closely for resistance points when the market is attacked again. If leading stocks can absorb selling at or slightly above the low levels of the current week, that would indicate a stabilized support zone had been reached. If stocks break through those points, however, the belief would be that still lower prices are to be seen. Such a development probably would bring additional selling from operators who usually work along the line of least resistance.
Small Change* in Resene Ratios
Only comparatively small changes were shown in the reserve ratios in the principal districts. For the system as a whole, a drop of 3.1rr to S2r^ was recorded, compared with S3 1% last week and 74.6% a year ago. Boston went down to 81.8%, against S3.3r'c a week ago and 77.8% last year. Chicago reported 86.2%, compared with 87.2% in the preceding week and 82.3% in 1929. At Ne*y York, the ratio was 84 W, contrasted with 84.1% in the previous week and 74 3%> a year ago.
Consolidated Gas	,
Interests Hopeful
Interests that have been identified with the market for Consolidated Gas on numerous occasions in the last few years are hopeful on the outlook. They insist that the effect of a proposed rate reduction has been magnified m the bear talks heard recently, and do not look for any substantial reduction in earnings for the current year.	'
New Construction Slightly Lower
Figures on construction contracts always are interesting to Wall street. Under present conditions, they are attracting even mgre attention. The latest report of the F. W. Dodge Corp., covering the period from August 1 to August 8, shows that such contracts in 37 states east of the Rockies totaled $94,764,300.
That was at the rate of $13,537,800 a business day, compared with a daily rate of $14,135,700 for the previous month and $18,803,200 daily in August of last year. From January 1 to August 8, new construction contracts in the same states involved $3,100,306,000. contrasted with $3,811,042^00 in the corresponding period cf 1929.
Canadian Pacific’s Future Earning?*
Improvement in earnings of Canadian Pacific in the last half of the year has been predicted, while those who have been switching from that rail into some of the standard domestic issues with better prospects insist that everything depends upon the movement of crops in the next few months.
A member of authorities do not believe Canadian Pacific can overcome this yea> tbe reduced revenues reported thus far unless a material change for the better comes in general conditions. Canada is suffering from business depression, the same as the United States, and no sign is seen of a definite and sustained reversal in the situation.
Chicago A North Western’s Darnings Down Sharply _
A severe slump in the earnings of Chicago & North Western teas occurred this year, and the results for July are likely to be unsatisfactory, particularly as they will compare with a lftonth last year when the company included $1,349,493 in back mail pay.
While present prospects arc that the revenues for the entire year will leave only a small margin over the $5 a share dividend requirements. it is pointed out by railroad interests that the company has ample cash reserves to' warrant the maintenance of the regular dividend.
Americnn Machine A: Foundry in Good Position
American Machine & Foundry is in a good position, as the company has what practically is a monopoly in the manufacture of machines for cigar and cigarette making. Increased output of cigarettes and the steady trend toward machine made cigars are factors which are of benefit to the company. Sufficient orders were on the books at the beginning of the final six months to assure practically capacity operations for the greater part of the period, so that tHe cutlook for earnings is considered bright.
Liquidation Reported in American Car A Foundry
Liquidation has been in progress again in ‘American Car & Foundry, according to market interests. Bear traders have abandoned their practice of pressing the stock for sale, and have been giving their attention to others. The inability? of the stock to show any sustained rallying ability, even when the general market was showing improvement, has discouraged holders and resulted in switching into other stocks or the abandonment of long positions. With the outlook for equipment makers anything but favorable, no incentive for coming into the stock remains even af sharp concessions.
Premium on Southern Railuay -*■
Southern Railway is one of the stocks on which borrowers have been compelled to pay a premium recently. However, that has not resulted in any great amount of covering. Bears v ho had put out the stock at higher levels have maintained their position. In certain quarters, it is contended that the actual short interest in the issue is not as large as appears on the surface. The belief prevails that there has been some selling “against the strong box,” and that while stock^s being borrowed to make deliveries, the shares will be brought forward when the proper time arrives.
U. S. steel	•
Compared with Others
Statisticians in the financial district are comparing U. S. Steel with the other steel companies, and the results are favorable to the leading company. Because of its great diversification, U. S. Steel has been able to pass through a period of business depression with relatively good earnings. Some companies with less diversification and dependent upon one or two industries for business «have found it hard sledding. i
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.