Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 6, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 10
Stocks were reactionary in yesterday’s market. While no heavy Helling appeared the supply was sufficient to force a steady downward trend, because demand was limited to scale* buying and was not large enough to absorb the persistent offerings. New lows were reached in many stocks, but most importance was attached to the action of U. S. Steel - common, which broke through to a new low since 3.928. That stock was influenced by further reductions in steel operations, although it had been generally predicted that activities would be further reduced in the last two months of the year. However, the infoa i nation came at a	when buy-
ing was absent and had considerable influence.
Leading issues gave ground slowly and oiflerly. However, the absence of any rallying tendency. brought an Increased supply in the last hour, when the new lows were being established. A'moderate amount of short covering developed just at the close, causing small rallies from the lowest in a few stocks. Sharp declines in wheat and cotton helped to discourage the buying of stocks and were credited with keeping some of the scale buying orders out of the market.
The outcome of the election was being studied closely all day. At the opening the selling on that factor was only moderate, but as additional results became known and it grew evident that Democratic gains in Congress were larger than the Street had looked for, the liquidation increased. _ The selling was felt in aU departments of the list. The tone during the entire session was easy to weakl
Traders Bought on Balance
Professionals and floor traders were moderate buyers on balance foi>the day. At the opening those operators were putting out stocks and supplied the nearby bids. Later in the day, when outside selling increased, many started covering shorts on a scale and that buying exceeded the earlier selling.
Commission houses were lass active. Scale buying took place during the setback, but the lower levels uncovered stop-loss orders and that resulted in heavier liquidation, so that the leading firms sold on balance.
Increase in Car Loadings Encouraging
Encouragement was taken from the fact that freight car loadings for the week ended October 25, amounting to 959,335 cars, showed an increase of 28,2f>0 cars over the preceding week. The decrease from last year was 175.025 cars, and the total was 203.639 under the corresponding week of 1928. At the corresponding time a year ago, freight car loadings were going downward. Market interests are inclined to wait for the reports of the next few weeks before placing too great Importance on the figures.
Exchange Loans
Down 26.6%	•
A decrease of $925,328,674, or nearly 26 6% in brokers’ loans reported by the New York Stock Exchange, has brought the total to the lowest figure shown since the figures first were compiled, at the beginning of 1926. The present total is $2,556,124,087, which compares with $3.481.452,761 on September 30, last, and with $6,108,824.868 on October 31, a year ago. The previous low record was $2,767,400,514, established on May 31, 1926. The record high was $8,549,383,979 made on September 30, of last year.
Election Results	*
Brought Selling
Early selling which came into the market was attributed to election results throughout the country. At the opening, the pressure was not severe. But sellers predominated around the room, and when the nearby blds had been supplied. the general list slid off easily during the first hour of trading.
Steel Operations Continue Decline
Operations in the steel Industry still show a downward trend. That is in line with predictions. Most interests in the trade look for further reductions before a change for the better comes. Curtailment is in progress in all lines, due to the smaller specific^, tinns coming from consumers. The last two months of a year normally show steel users taking smaller tonnages than previously, because they do not desire to accumulate an inventory toward the year-end.	*
Western Union to Cover Dividend
Western Union will cover its $8 a share annual dividend this year with a balance to spare, although the margin is not likely to be large. No doubt has been raised concerning the maintenance of the distribution. A substantial surplus was accumulated over a period of years, when earnings were nearly twice the dividends
paid, so that the company is in & strong position to continue the present rate. At current levels, the yield is nearly 5M5&- That has been attracting some scale investment buying in odd lots.	.	.
Steady Expansion by National Biscuit
National Biscuit has a record for being ’’depression-proof,” which apparently will not be broken in the current year, for results for the nine months showed net Income of $16,768,774, or $795,550 in excess of the corresponding period last year. The increase of approximately 5% is considered satisfactory in view of general business conditions.	.
Steady growth of the company’s net income is shown by the results in the past eight years. In 1922, that item was $11,024,980. increasing to $12,092,828 in 1923. to $12,881,530 in 1924, to $13,581,696 in 1925, to $14,674,162 in 1926. to $16,277,158 in 1927. to $17,883,365 in 1928 and to $21,423,571 in 1929. A moderate gain is indicated for this year, judging from the results for nine moths.
Commonwealth A Southern’s Operating Economies
When the market becomes settled again and utilities gain in favor, it is probable that Commonwealth & Southern will be a leader among the low-priced issues. Interests in the organisation state that operating economies are continually being put into effect, and the company operates in promising territory. For the 12 months ended August 31. last, the balance for the stock was equal to 66 cents a share. The stitihrI dividend rate is 60 cents, and the current price gives a yield of about 6%. 1^ well informed quarters, it is said that no change in the dividend should be looked for.
Air Reduction 1930 Earnings
Estimates are that Air Reduction for the current year can show profits of around $6-50 a share, which would compare with $7.75 in 1929. and $4.60 in 1928. For the nine months ended September 30. the balance for the stock was $5.02 a share, against $5.63 on a smaller nunf-ber of shares outstanding in the corresponding period a year ago.
Apparently the company has not been affected by the business depression to the extent which pessimists had been predicting when the stock was being pressed for sale. Most authorities insist that the chemical industry generally has not been hit as hard as many other lines this year.	*
American lee October Results
In reliable quarters, it is stated that operations of American Ice in October continued the favorable trend which was shown for the preceding month. September results were larger than those of the corresponding month & year ago and established a new high record for the period. It is generally predicted that October will show an increase of about 10% over the corresponding month last year. Interests in the company are confident that earnings for this year will be substantially better than any previous 12-month period in the company’s history.
Frocter & Gamble’s	/	-
Strong Position' .	.	. ‘	,
Procter & Gamble is in a strong position in its industry. The management has been making steady progress. That is indicated by the' fact that since 1921 net income has expanded 205%. whereas sales have increased approximately 100%, showing that control over -expenses has been exceptional.
The company has expanded its activities in recent years and is now considered the leading domestic manufacturer of glycerine and foodstuffs derived from vegetable oils. Completion, of the plant at Long Beach, Cal., now under construction, will give the company eight manufacturing units in this country and Canada. Acquisition of the organization of James A. Kirk & Co. earlier this year provided increased production facilities and widened the marketing system considerably.
Loew’s Earning*	.	. a
Favorable	""	, .
Earnings of Loew’s, Inc., for the year ended August 31, last, about came up to the optimistic predictions which bad been heard in the financial district Recently. The balance for the common was $9.90 a share on the average number of shares outstanding during the year. The company has continued its expansion and earnings uptrend, and thus has been one of the exceptions in the amusement field for some time. While forced liquidation has been in progress from time to time, it has been reported in recent months that good scale buying has been experienced during the reactions.	‘
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.