Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 5, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 12	.
Abreast of the Market |
Daily Column of Comment
There was no change in the character of the stock market. Saturday. Selling was resumed with the opening bell, and continued throughout the two-hour session. An outside supply came at the opening. This was the result of margin calls which had been sent out after Friday’s close For a time, short covering held prices barely steady, but as soon as this demand was filled, stocks worked lower again, with many reaching new lows for the movement.	*
Stop loss orders were again uncovered while the decline was in progress. This increased the supply. Bears continued their efforts to depress the list, and had little difficulty because buying power is limited, and those who have been out of the market are remaining on the side lines for the time being
Sentiment is quite pessimistic. No one is advising the purchase of stocks, even on a scale during reactions. Most observers are in favor of reducing long commitments whenever the market scores a rally. Those who have buying facilities are being advised to wait until the market itself shows definitely that the declining tendency has been arrested
Trading
Professional* and floor traders sold stocks for a time during the first half hour, but later turned to the*buying side and covered shorts. This demand was not felt, because the outside selling was heavy The professionals were purchasers on balance.
Commission houses reported only a moderate amount of new outside buying Meanwhile, liquidation has increased materially, and the leading firms were sellers on balance Saturday.
The Reaction
When the market scored its rallv about the middle of last week many students pointed out that the turn had come when a loss cl 25', of the ground gained previously had been recorded A similar reaction developed in February, to be followed by a good advance. Because this had occurred in the past it was the belief that the rally last week would mark the turning point.
Needlrss to cay the decline since that moderate recovery has heen a surpri*i to many , 1: has dissipated some of the optimism which was creeping into the advices of a large number of observers At the moment fox* are willing to say uhrn the reaction will be halted definite--ly Thex admit hmvovrr that a tu’T. may come nt any time
-	Pare Ton Fa»-t
Now that the maike* hA* beer, working steadily i^vc: much talk is heard tha the previous pace on the upturn had be^n ton 'asi. That 1 outdistanced the small improx cr. ent which hr.o occurred in bus'n*'.*.* was known ’ugbt elorc but thi* fact i* now being emphas.rod by tho«r on the hear «’d*
Loan*
Ferause brokers ’mans continued to increase while the leading stock* did Fttle oi moved toward lower level* the belief ha* hern spreading that stocks we»-e finding their wav from strong into weake* hand* Normally thi* deduction would be logical
Ranking interest* howitrr call attention to the fact that th^ie \**»re many bond flotations in recent weeks whr'h were financed in the money niatket and some believe the gams of the past two weeks particularly can be attributed partly to the bond financing.
Liquidation in Kail*
Judging from the action of the standard dividend paying rails there has be*'!! investment liquidation in these stocks So far as can be learned there has been no great amount of short selling in this group because of difficulties encountered when attempts are macle to borrow the shares for delivery. Nrx ertheles* the leading rads have declined quite stead.Jy
Fox Film
Resumption of dividends on Fox Film came earliet than many had anticipated Short covering has carried the stock forward at times, but in view of the general market conditions there hns been little outside buying because commission houses continue tn keep customers on th* sid** fin***
International Salt
One <>f th*' mx st orios m Tlie nirtket last week xvp« th*' extrnorchnarx rise in In t erna ’ inna’ Salt ’r. t ne {me of gene i al xxei’kncs* OflV'tals of th*' company refused to make nnx comment when questioned ns to possible pending dox elopments •n account t«»r the sttergth The stock pays $6 a share i^aiIx and lias earned on an avoiage of better than $10 a shaie tor the past decade
< oppefN
Fx-ent of :he decline in the enppe* group last month i* shown ov a cnmpilat ion of the value of UlO tepresentahve stocks bv one fiim This shows that there was a decline during the month of $391.157.000. or 1 1', in the 100 selected stocks tn a value of sr,l.4G6.2‘<’Ji00 st ’he end of April Tne mining gioup alone recorded a loss of S465.33P.000. oi 21 6r, during the month.
Thus far. them has been no change in the attitude of leading interests toward the copper shares It is pointed out that with dividend reductions considered certain purchases can be delaved until the unfavorable actions arc out of the wny One factor which can cause a rally in this group is ’he large short intei est ”’hich exists.
Colgate
Colgatc-Palniolive-Fcet is said to be dou.g at least as well this year as in 1929. which is exceptional for industrials just now. Before the break started reports had it that the stock was about to get market sponsorship. Of course, the action of the general market delayed action.
General Railway Signal
With equipment stocks out of favor it is not surprising that General Railway Signal has been suffering from selling. However, unlike a number of other equipments, the company recorded better earnings in the first quarter than in the corresponding period of 1929
• Prospective business is considered good, especially in the field of .subway and rapid tiansit work. The company staitcd this year with unfilled orders nearly double tho*e of January’ 1. 1029 Piodurts of General RaIv’R.x Signal help to work economies for the railtoads and have been used extensively in the campaign of several carriers to cut cost*.
wa* In 1921 wh**n *urplu« war s’oek* were thrown on The market for consumption.
I.tidliito Steel
Lilt* other steel companies which append io a large extent on automotive buying foi income Ludlum Steel experienced a let-down in activity so far this year Recently there has been slight improvement with a better production of motor cars. Ludlum has been reactionary with the general list. Rights on the stock, which entitle holders of record April 25 to subscribe for one fchare for every fixe held at $33 a share, expire May 19.
Philadelphia A Reading Coal
In the fare of a net loss of 5795.418 in 1929 FitJadelphia & Reading Coal & Iron had a net profit of $630,007. or 45 cents a common share in the first quarter this year. Some interests point out that the company’s operations did not benefit from the funds raised last year on the $30,000,000 debentures until the first quarter of 1930 and express the view that the company may have turned the corner.
Warner Bros.
Estimates are heard that earnings of Warner Bros. Pictures in the quarter which ends this month might establish a new record, because May pflbmises to be the largest of ’he year. Efforts of the management will be concentrated toward feat ut ing the Warner display’s throughout the country through special price inducement*, advertising and ether plan*.
Can Shares
; Poet earnings statements have been rospon-; sible for sr.lling in many issues recently’. A numbet of companies which made good reports i in 1929 have been finding it difficult to make a favorable showing this year. This is not true of the can companies,'’“so far as can be learned. When the market turns many believe that American and Continental Can will be again among the leaders. There has heen but one
I really bad year in the canning business. That
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.