Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 18, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
A Daily Column of Comment
Weakness was shown from the start of business in the stock market yesterday, and several efforts to rally the market were unsuccessful. Finally during the afternoon the selling increased materially, so that the Anal tone was weak with net losses of substantial proportions in most of the leading stocks. New lows for the year were reached In New York Central, United Gas Improvement, General Motors, Colorado Fuel, American Rolling Mill, General Electric. Sears-Roebuck and others. Popular pivotal shares like U. S. Steel common and American Can were under pressure, and recorded sharp losses, but held above their lows of the year. A few of the high-priced shares recorded severe breaks.
Oflenngs were persistent- throughout the session. However, the downward movement was quite orderly in most stocks, indicating that there was scale demand from shorts who were covering, and possibly buying by outsiders at prices slightly above the lows of last week, it was when some of the former favorites broke through the lows of last week that the supply became large.
Conservatives continued to keep clients out of the market despite the lower levels which, were established. They contended that the market had not yet shown signs of having com-1 pleted its reactionary movement, and urged delay in buying until it has been definitely established that a resistance level has been reached. Only where customers have been inclined to pick up odd lots for investment and for cash have these interests agreed to give buying advices, and then their selections have been confined to standard stocks which are now considered most likely to continue their current dividend rate.
Traders Sold On Balance	'	*
Professionals and floor traders dic^ not attack the market during the forenoon. However, when it was‘evident that consistent liquidation was still in progress, it 4 ty of these operators sold out stocks that had been purchased during recent weak spells. A moderate amount of short selling also was indicated, and this element sold on balance.
Commission houses were less active. Investment buying in odd lots continued. The lower prices brought new liquidation but leading firms bought on balance.
Brokers* Leans
Doud 5.26%
Brokers’ loans for the week ended October 15. last, as reported by Federal Reserve member hanks of New York City showed a decrease of $153,000,000, or slightly more than 5 26^;. That is the third successive week of substantial reductions, the drop in that period having been $470,000,000. The total of loans now is $2,752.000,000. the lowest since February 16,	1927,
when it was $2,719,000,000.
All the sources from which the loans are made showed declines. The borrowings from local banks were off 533 000.000. while those from out-of-town banks dropped $41,000,000 to $514,000,000, and borrowings from •‘others’” decreased $74,000,000 to $536,000,000. Both the , latter totals are new low records since the publication of the figures was begun.
The bulk of the latest drop was in demand loans, which fell to $2,149,000,000 from $2,298,000,000 in the preceding week, or by $149,000.000. Time borrowings were down only $5,000.000 from $608,000,000 in the week before to $603,000,000.	.
Reserve Ratios	-
Changed Little	,
Changes in the Federal Reserve ratios in • the leading districts were not important during the past week. At Boston, an increase of 2 6% was shown, while New York reported a drop of ’ 1.1%. The reserve ratios, which were watched , so closely a year ago, have been satisfactory , right along	i
At Boston, the ratio is S2.4r; . compared with , 79.8% in the preceding week and 77.9% last , year. New York is at 82 6%, against 83.7% a | week ago and 83% in 1929. Chicago reports , 85.5%. contrasted with 85% last week and j 70 6% a year ago. For the entire system, the ' figure is 80.9%, compared with 81.6% in the } previous -week and 73.1% last year.	1
Third Quarter Earn in ga Soon
Although a number of reports* of earnings for the quarter ended September 30, last, have come out, those which attract most interest in Wall Street have not yet appeared. They will be published in the next two weeks or so. It Is probable that a number will be disappointing, but in certain of the leading industries the actual figures may not be as bad as some of the extreme pessimists have been predicting.
Colorado Fuel ' Dividend Doubts
1 Because Colorado Fuel is in a peculiar posi-' tion in the steel industry. the company has been I feeling the effects of the existing conditions keenly since last summer. Many of its products have been sold under factory cost in an J effort to keep the plants operating at the best possible rate and thus control the overhead.
[ Earnings for the third quarter have been affected adversely, and the showing for the final > three months of the year doubtless will be unI favorable. The last half is likely to eat heavily into the profits of $1,619,053 reported for the ; first six months. Because of those eireum-( stances, doubt exists as to the maintenance of the $2 annual dividend basis, which rate was established early this year. In some quarters, ; a $1 rate is looked for. Directors will meet for dividend consideration within two weeks.
■ There has been considerable liquidation in the stock at times recently.
Record Contracts in Outdoor Advertising
' Since the beginning of September, substantial improvement has been shown m outdoor advertising. Last month, a new high record was established for any one month in the history of General Outdoor Advertising. Thus far in Oc-i tober, the increase has been maintained. In some quarters, that is interpreted as likely to reflect better business conditions later on. Big advertisers may be looking for a change and Intend, therefore, to keep their products before the consumers throughout the country.
Inland Steel’s , Good Position
Inland Steel is m a stragetic position in the steel industry. While the company naturally is feeling the effects of curtailed consumption in . many lines, it is obtaining its share of the * present moderate rail and structural business. , Aside from the industrial side of the Inland picture, the organization has the advantage of being one of the leading so-called independent companies Several steel interests have’ been considering the desirability of Inland’s position. Sooner or later, the company is likely to be taken over by a large unit at a price materially above the recent quotations for the shares.
Fourth Quarter Motor Earnings
Already, talk is heard of unsatisfactory earnings for the motor car manufacturers in the fourth quarter. That is not surprising, however, because no one in the industry has been predicting any change in conditions in the current period. It actually would be unsea sonal if a rebound should develop in the buying of motor cars at this time of the year.
Many companies are said to be looking forward to 1931 with confidence. It is maintained that replacements will be heavy if business and industrial conditions are more nearly normal. Considerable depends upon when the change for the better in general business comes. Thus far. none of the motor authorities has been willing to make a definite prediction as to the time.
<_>II Situation la Uncertain
Weakness in crude oil and gasoline reflects the uncertainty which ex.sts in -he. oil industry. However, the crude price cut of Humble has been confined to two areas in Texas, where others previously had cut prices. No general reduction has been made.
The decline in gasoline prices is not unusual at this time, although it has been disturbing. The season of heavy consumption has drawn to a close. The drop in gasoline prices while crude oil prices were sustained has reduced materially the margin of profit on the refined product.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.