Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 23, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2	---------------------------
Abreast of the Market
Daily Column of Comment
Reactions were general in the stock market yesterday. For a	in the early dealing's
there was a firm tone, but as soon as the demand which had accumulated over Sunday had been taken care of the pivotal stocks started drifting* downward. This brought profit taking by traders in a number of the specialties which had been purchased last week because of their technical position. It was not until the last hour that the reaction gained a moderate amount of momentum. Previously the downtrend had been comparatively limited.
Short covering was smaller than in some time. Apparently most of the bears had cleaned up their immediate positions late last week during the rallies. Naturally this removed a source of buying which had been helpful heretofore when recessions occurred. Few attempts were made to support the market or stage a recovery, those who had been credited with leadership in the last rally standing on the side lines on the theory that the market was entitled to a technical reaction.
Standard leaders among the industrials and rails were lower, but the most attention v.’as attracted to the specialties which had scored good gains last week. These stocks reflected the material reduction in the short position which has occurred as a result of recent covering. Coppers were exceptions at times, reflecting an advance in the price of the red metal.
Securities were affected to some extent by weakness in grain prices in all markets. At Chicago, July wheat, which is not under the domination of the government’s stabilization plan, broke to new low levels since 1901. while sharp breaks occurred at Liverpool and Winnipeg.	i
There is not much change in sentiment. ; Most observers favor remaining on the side lmcs until after the holidays. Those desiring to buy stocks are being told to take the standard 1 shares on a scale during reactions.
Traders Sold on Balance
The lower levels were the result of pressure from the professionals and floor traders, al- j though the selling was not particularly heavy. 1 Those operators covered shorts moderately, but buying did not equal the supply.	j
Commission houses had few- selling orders The lower levels reached some of the scale buy- 1 ing limits, and as a result leading firms were credited with having bought on balance.
Isolated Liquidation Still tn Progress
Liquidation still is in progress in isolated instances, judging from a number of stocks that have not shared proportionately in the recent rallying tendencies. Such situations al- * ways exist after a prolonged downward movement in the general list.
Position of American
Woolen Preferred	..
A leading commission house With extensive New England affiliations points out that American Woolen is in the most liquid position in its history. As of June 30, last, net working capital amounting to $56,158,166. Allowing for the notes and mortgages payable, $43,318,166 would be available for the preferred stock, or net quick assets of more than $86.50 a share.
The cash item of $17,485,976 alone is practically $35 a share on the senior issue, and if the notes and mortgages were paid entirely out of the cash resources, in excess of $9.25 a share still would be available for the preferred stock.
Speculative* Demand For A. M. Byers
Speculative purchases have been coming into A. iL Byers in the past week or so. The demand has been for interests that are inclined to look for important developments from the company’s Aston process of making wrought iron once general business conditions definitely have turned for the better. The new plant of the company was opened recently, but that did not result in a market demonstration because of general sentiment at that time. A year or so ago. comment on the Aston process was decidedly favorable and speculation in the stock was unusually heavy.
Grand-Silver Stores
Well Deflated
Grand-Silver Stores has been well deflated in the opinion of some market circles. The selling which drove the stock down to its low of around 16 was attributed to forced liquidation of a distress nature. Scale buying on the drop was due to a statement by the president of the company that earnings this year probably would exceed the showing of 1929 when $3.97 a share was earned on the present capitalization. The stock pays regular annual dividends of $1 a share, and during the present year two extra stock dividends of one percent each were distributed. The company is said to be in a strong financial position. The margin of profit this year has been satisfactory, although sales were somewhat under earlier predictions because of general business conditions.
Short Covering Has Been Large
Short covering has been large in recent sessions. Because of the action of stocks of cer- , tain companies with small capitalizations, many. students believe most of the gams in those ‘ issues have been caused by bears taking m part of their commitments. Less selling of a necessitous character also, of course, has had an important bearing	on the recoveries.	j
Tax Selling Until	|
End of Year	I
Selling to establish losses for income tax ' purposes is likely to continue until the end of i the year. While the more far-sighted traders already have completed that operation, a few laggards always delay until the final days. In past years, that often has been reflected by the large amount of cash business on the last trading day. A good part of the stock thus sold will be replaced later, giving the market underlying buying power on any good reaction which might develop after the recovery has been completed.
Leading Banker* Being Commended
Leading bankers are being commended for their cooperation during the period when sentiment was disturbed by the closing of the Bank of United States. It is pointed out that such a development in the past often upset conditions for a long period- Through the activity of the most important bankers, that development passed with the least possible disturbance. Confidence grew as a result, and that has had a bearing on the changing sentiment in some quarters concerning the Immediate future of the stock market. It is known that some shorts covered because of it.
Discussing Fourth	.
Quarter Earning*
Those who have been fighting all the rallies in recent sessions arc discussing the prospective earnings to be reported for the fourth quarter of this year. They maintain that within six weeks the Street must digest many unfavorable statements and that the industrial list may be affected thereby.	,
It is well known, of course, that revenues of many companies in the current period have been comparatively unfavorable. However, a number of market interests say that if industrial conditions begin to improve by the end of January, the influence from the unsatisfactory statements could be negligible, with Wall Street contending that such statements represent “water over the dam.”
Believe Railroads in Better Position
Conservative market interests are inclined to believe that railroad shares are in a better technical position as a result of the liquidation which carried many of “the leaders down to the lowest prices in several years. Considerable of the selling came from holders who were alarmed because of the persistent down-trend in the group. Scale buying on the latest reactions was credited to those who are confident of a turn for the better in railroad traffic in the not distant future. Any favorable development, such as an early announcement of an agreement between executives of eastern lines on the four-trunk question, could bring about considerable improvement in the market for the leading carriers.
Long-Pull Buying In Steel Shares
Long-pull buying has developed in a number of the steel shares. That demand has come from interests that are confident the industry will show improvement during 1931, although admitting that the early months are not likely to cause any great change. With inventories of consumers at low levels, however, it is held that orders for steel will show an increase with the first betterment in general business. Considerable emphasis has been put on efforts to stabilize prices, because indications are that steel leaders have been successful in strengthening jthe price structure*	__________ e
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.