Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 17, 1930; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 16
Abreast of the Market
A.	Daily Column of Comtncnf
Weakness continued in the stock market yesterday. Many of the active issues established new lows for the current movement for this year. Liquidation again was persistent. As further declines were recorded, stop loss orders were uncovered which increased the supply. Commission houses reported that selling orders were coming from all sections of the country, showing that holders of stocks had been discouraged by the recent action of the market and its apparent inability to hold a rally.
Signs of support were seen at times, but it was not sufficient to absorb the offerings. Feeble rallies occurred and were accompanied by a reduced volume of trading. That reaction was viewed as unfavorable. The new weakness in commodities was an outstanding influence. It unsettled many traders who had positions in wheat and cotton in addition to securities, causing them to dispose of part of their stocks when there was only a moderate demand from shorts who covered on a downward scale.
Call money was decidedly easy. The renewal rate on the Stock Exchange was 21J<;. Loans were made at that figure all day. although there were large offerings outside as low as 2r,.
Sentiment still is bearish. The fact that Steel common failed to withstand the persistent pressure was disconcerting to leading observers, to say the least. They continue to advise customers against entering the market on the long side, and strongly favor reduction of long positions whenever the opportunity is presented to dispose of stocks at reasonable levels.
Trading
As always when the market is sharply lower, outside buying through commission houses increased. but was on a scale and for odd lots It had little influence. Leuding firms reported increased liquidation, and wire sellers on balance.
Professionals and floor traders were active on both sides. They sold stocks during the lorcnoon, and had ample opportunity to coves later when liquidation became extensive. This element was credited with buying on balance.
Tlie Short Interest
i An investigation m certain of the leading houses reveal* that the short interest in the i market is not as large as many traders had been contending. That would indicate that coni siderable of the selling has been liquidation and i the lower prices which have been established have brought forced selling because of margin calls, etc.
, There has been some short selling in a lew of the inactive stocks which are not coiisidered to have bright prospects. Frequently, however ( the bears have been compelled to cover in «uch 1 issues because of scarcity of shares and difficulties encountered when attempts have been 1 made to borrow for deliveries
' Where there has liven a short interest m the so-called pivotal stocks, the bears have hot rushed to cover because the market has declined consistently, with only minor mterrup-, tions in the downward trend. Naturally. 1110*1' who have stocks out are not encouraged to 1 buy when the trend continues downward
:	Idle Fund*
1 Quite a large amount of idle money is wait' mg for a propitious moment to be invesud As usual, many of the investors will wait for unob-; tamable prices Some investment money i*5 going into the market danv. but it lias not been , m sufficient volume to make itseli lelt against the steady liquidation.
i	Dividend*
Apparently many stocks on the list have dividends which are considered unsafe judging from the yield at current prices. Many of the companies represented in those shares aie not [enjoying good earnings. Some interests haw I insisted that large surpluses would permit su< h 1 companies to pay the dividends but it is pi<»:»-|able that under present conditions many d.tei-tors will feel justified in 'conserving resoirtrs’ until better times, and common stockholders v. ih have to watt for distributions.
Investment Trust*
What investment trusts are doing in the cutrent market is not known A few interests maintain that leading' investment trusts haw been taking stocks on a scale, while others ate emphatic in stating that certain of the early *vK-ing came from the trusts, and that they have not replaced their holdings.
The Swinging Pendulum
Conditions are quite opposite from those prevailing last November. At that time, brokers’ loans were high and predictions were that they would go to $10,000,000,000, and even mote, be, fore a reaction set in. At the same time, the belief was general that stocks would advance to ; much higher levels.
I Now, the market has been well deflated, [capital is idle in an abundant volume and theie seems to be a feeling that business never will | icturn to what is considered normal I: is just the swinging pendulum again It wont too fat in the period of enthusiasm Inst year, and probably will go too far in the curt ent depression.
Rumors
Persistent rumors that something is hanging over the market have not helped the situation in the last three or four sessions. Liquidation has resulted, although a thorough investigation has tailed to confirm the bearish reports. Wall Street, however, always is willing to explain a sharp break, and in such times rumors fly thick and .fast, being magnified as they are passed around the financial district.
Commodities
Economists maintain that world wide conditions are unfavorable for any' immediate recovery in commodity prices. However, many feel that there is little prospect of further sharp breaks, mainly because quotations are at such abnormally low levels. Declines in commodities, coming at a time when stocks have been generally reactionary, have increased liquidation from outsiders who are becoming more disturbed over the inability of rallies to hold.
Bad Thinking
That the market is suffering more from "bad thinking" than from reduced business activity is one of the views expressed by a market authority. It is contended that comparisons have been made with 1329 and 1928, which were abnormal years, and, therefore, have been unfavorable. Of course, no one denies that business activity is less than had been predicted, but a normal fall recovery is looked f<y£ in many quarters.
Southern Pacific
That some of the railroad stocks are getting to levels where the yield should attract an investment demand is probable, although at the moment there is no other Incentive for buying. Southern Pacific is considered by many as being in that class. The speculative possibilities of
ro (Linger, and at current pi ices the stock gives an investment yield of around 5 J4 < t . Frequently. during breaks m the market, investment issues aie thrown over to protect holdirgs in more speculative shares Such selling probably came into Southern Pacific at tunes recently.
I*. S. Freight
I’ S Ft eight is one of the speculative issues m which the shot! inloi est was to run to cover ten days or two weeks ago, when aggressive covering caused a rather sharp advance front the pievious low level Since this demand was ‘ applied the issue has dropped sensationally The selling has been based on smaller earnings and the low yield at recently existing quotations.
Steel Conunon
Early in Januaiy. authorities in U S. Steel told friends that 1930 would be a normal year, comparing with previous periods when dullness developed during the summer months, after a fair spring, to be followed in the fall by improved buying which would carry operations upward from the bottom. At that time, the views were ignored because of overenthusiastic predictions of capacity operations by March as a icsult of increased demand. Many who purchased common during the optimistic market period have been forced to liquidate recently as margins became impaired.
General Motors Preferred
A leading Stock Exchange firm states that holders planning to convert General Motors $7 prefect ed into $5 preferred stock will have some advantage in waiting until after July 7, when both stocks will be "ex-dividend." This is due to the fact that the dividend rate in effect is reduced from $7 to $6 75 a share by the exchange of 1.35 shares of $5 stock for one share of $7 preferred.
This house points out that the conversion offer runs until July 21 and is advising its customers to accept it. The new $5 preferred stock is callable at $320, whereas the old $7 preferred was callable at $125. As a result of this callable feature, the old preferred never sold where it was entitled to on its investment value. The new stock at 94 gives a return of 5.30%, compared with less than 5% obtainable from other first grade preferred stocks.
Ohio Oil-Transcontinental
In connection with the splitting of Ohio Oil common two for one and its acquisition of Transcontinental Oil on a basis of four-sevenths of one new share for each share of Transcontinental, it is understood that the new Ohio stock
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.