Rally Develops
Rally Develops: Stocks Recover After Absorbing Further Selling During Morning Rally Develop
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 11, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Stocks Recover After Absorbing Fur-tJicr Selling During Morning
Price movements on the Stock Exchange yesterday indicated that pessimism m speculative quarters with regard to business conditions was being overdone. Success attained by the bear crowd in forcing drastically lower prices in Monday’s session encouraged further operations for the decline, and the principal trading stocks were forced to new lows on the current reaction during the morning hours
These additional recessions were accompanied by widespread rumors of liquidation for the account of important banking interests, and of financial difficulties encountered by various individual companies. Exaggerated talk was heard of the extent of the business depression in many branches of commerce, and the trading community was saturated with discouragement.
However, it became increasingly evident as the session progressed that the market had worked into an oversold position. With industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages down CbHtinued on JwentiexA
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
CoafiattMd from First
25 points from. the high of 275-07, reached May 29, extensive cleaning out of weak speculative accounts had evidently been accomplished, and technical conditions additionally strengthened by recent substantial short selling.
This bolstering of the general list's underpinnings found reflection in better resistance to efforts on the downside- Announcement was made aX noon of a decrease of 295.000 tons in TT. S- Steel's unfilled orders last month, which compared with the advance estimate by Dow, Jones & Co. of a reduction of 300.000 tons. With this news out of the way. Steel developed rallying tendencies, and, the recovery spread throughout the list during the afternoon.
* • •
Impetus was given to the rebound in active stocks by Washington advices minimizing reporta that the Cabinet was taking a stand against the tariff bilL In high administration circles the view was expressed that the, proposed measure was a much better one than the country had been led to believe, and that its early enactment would wipe out the existing uncertainty regarding its general influence on business.
The view was asserted that while the bill has both its good and bad points, its defeat would leave the tariff agitation still open, and contribute to trade unsettlement. News that the Senate was preparing to take a vote on the measure by Friday caused considerable covering in stocks recently under pressure. Steel. General Electric. American Can. Consolidated Gas and other pivotal shares reached levels representing sweeping recoveries from their morning lows. Worthington Pump, and J. I. Case rebounded sensationally, and the whole market showed relief from pressure through the last hour.
Condition statement of reporting member banks of the Federal Reserve system as of June 4 showed an increase of $18,000,000 in commercial loans, the first time a gain has been shown in this item for many weeks. While the total is still $706,000,000 below a year ago, furnishing an index to the depressed state of business, the reversal in the recent persistent downward trend was favorably interpreted as indicating that some pick-up had occurred in the demand for commercial credit.
Another encouraging factor in the statement was continuation of the upward trend in the investment holdings of member banks. Total as of June 4 was $5,919,000,000, an increase of $30,000,000 from the preceding week, and of $140,000,000 as compared with the corresponding date last year. Bank holdings of other than government securities have been increasing more rapidly than total investments. While government security holdings dropped $12,000,000 last week to a level $117,000,000 below a year ago, holdings bf other than government securities gained $42,000,000. and are now $258,000,000 above a year ago xt $3,120,000.000.
Substantial gams in the latter item over the last several months have been an important factor in sustaining the bond market m face of the huge flotations of new issues. With the banks making large commitments of this kind, any let-up in the volume of fresh offerings should find reflection in higher prices for seasoned bond investments.
"The most important fact of all in the present market situation is the one least discussed.” says James C. Willson & Co. "We believe it deserves the most careful consideration of every investor and every dealer in securities This fact is the sensational rise in the gold value of the American currency dollar. Due to heavy gold imports and decreases in outstanding Federal Reserve note issue, the currency dollar today is backed by 100 cents in gold for the first time since 1921. As the gold dollar is our only standard for international settlements, prices in every international market—commodities, as well as stocks—invariably follow the changes in gold value of the legal currency dollar. This fact is basic. The record bears it out.
"A compilation we have just made for ten years back shows that a rising gold coverage of our currency dollar has always meant dropping commodity and stock prices—just as a drop in coverage has meant rising prices. In other words, the currency dollar will buy more when it is backed by more gold, and will buy less when it is backed by less gold.
"Our experience table shows that once the currency dollar reaches par, the upward movement in prices soon begins m a long and broad swing. We see clearly indicated, within 60 days, the basis for a steady upswing somewhat similar to that which followed 1921. This will come about largely through increases in the issue of currency occasioned by heavy raw material buying at gold value levels."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.