Further Bad Breaks: Drop in Rails Starts Another Selling Wave Further Bad Breaks Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 8, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Drop in Rails Starts .Another Selling Wave
Resumption of the general decline in the main body of stocks was precipitated yesterday by a further outburst of selling* in the principal rails. Carrier shares used in the Dow-Jones averages made a new low for the bear barket at Thursday’s close, when the compilation stood at 110.ST, compared with tbe previous low of 111.10 on October 23.
This development was interpreted to mean that liquidation m this class of stocks was uncompleted. Pressure was renewed on the outstanding railroad issues, and a lack of support was betrayed by tbe extensive drops which occurred in these shares.
Union Pacific gave ground sharply, breaking to its lowest levels since 1927 under a flood of offerings. Baltimore & Ohio reached its lowest price since 1925, New York Central a new low since 1926, and Pennsylvania a new low since l^ST, while- Atchison dipped to its lowest levels in two years.	-
• • •
With these prominent rails declining rapidly, unsettlexnent spread throughout the list. Steel common led a further decline in the pivotal in-C'onfinteeci on Twelfth J’a'ze
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Oosttfavetf front Firot Paffr dnstrial division* breaking to 9. new low since 3928* SxtensUms of tire major downward movement took place in General Electric, Westinghouse, Allied Chemical, General Motors, du Font, ind other bell-wethers. Utilities also were mdtt severe pressure, and additional losses of a substantial nature were suffered by Telephone, Consolidated Gaa, North American, and. Public Service of New Jersey.
» * *
No let-up in the pressure of liquidation occurred during: the last hour. Large offerings continued to pour Into the market, and new Iowa on the movement were reached in tbe final dealings. Steel ended the day at its lowest price in-’two years, the closing transartion being a block of 10300 shares at 140.
Further declines took place in active stocks throughout the list, and the whole market was heavy. Industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages closed at 174.38, a loss of 634 points on the day, and a new low since July 13. 1927.
Rails ended the session at 106.91, the lowest level reached since May 19, 1926. After receiving support all year above the low of 6472. established on November 13, 1929, utilities penetrated this resistance level. On a basis of yesterday's final figures, tbe average for this class of. stocks stood at 62.36. This was the lowest figure attained since the utility compilation was inaugurated by Dow, Jones & Co. on January 2, 1929.	.
Reports of selling In the rail shares for French account in connection with the financial difficulties of a private banking corporation in Faris were not credited. International bootses reported that Faris was buying American shares on balance.	*•
Impetus was given the decline in the leading rails by the sale of several large blocks for the account of investment trusts. One trust was estimated to have sold 12,000 shares of Pennsylvania, and 10.000 New York Central, in addition to other carrier shares.
* • • •
Some observers attributed part of the heavy selling’In the main body of stocks to nervousness over the statement by Senator Brookhart, insurgent Republican, that he would favor adoption. during the coming short session of Congress of the Glass bill for a tax on speculation. However, he also said he would work for the Caraway bill to prevent short selling of wheat and cotton. This announcement failed to unsettle the pornmndity markets, and it is likely that his remarks regarding the Glass measure would have been ignored had stock market conditions been less depressing.
Committee headed by Senator Glass will start hearings early in. December on credit and banking policies, with special reference to the use of Federal Reserve credit, and its control in* times of inflation and deflation. In this connection, it is expected that testimony will be taken regarding various phases of the stock market, particularly concerning the extent and influence of short selling and bear raiding.
But •well informed Washington authorities feel that the hearings will probably be extreme- I ly conservative in character. Following their victories in the recent election, the Democrats 1 will probably be anxious to maintain their ad- j vantage, and hence will be unwilling to do1 anything that might work hardship on busi- < ness recovery. Hence, there was a growing j feeling in Wall Street that the hearings will I not prove the unsettling influence that was feared a few weeks ago.
• * •
One curious feature of the recent selling of the rails has been the fact that no small part of the liquidation has represented profit-taking by wealthy investors. At first glance, such a procedure seems illogical in view of the extensive declines in the rails from the 1929 peaks, and the heavy selling that has been in progress in various sections of the market to establish losses.
. However, monied interests who have been carrying high-grade railroad shares over a long period of years still have handsome profits in many issues of this class. If they had indulged in realizing sales last year, they would have been forced to turn over a substantial proportion of their profits to the government. At the present time, however, they can offset their profits m the rails by taking losses in other holdings that show appreciable shrinkages.
Thus, they can write-off their profits in the rails, and by replacing them later, establish their cost levels against future income tax computations at considerably higher figures than prevailed when they were originally purchased.
Federal Reserve banks entered the open market last week for the first time in a month, thereby demonstrating their continued willingness to maintain easy money conditions, even in a week of unusual demand for credit and currency. Last week they purchased $20,000,000 of bankers' acceptances, thus preventing interest rates from firming by putting at member hanks' disposal funds which would otherwise have had to be borrowed.
The New York City banks, faced with a substantial credit demand and an unusually large demand for currency to meet requirements over the election holiday, not only increased their borrowings from the Federal Reserve by $24,000,000, but also drew heavily on their reserve balances, which fell proportionately more than did deposits. This explains the firmer tone in the call money market the past few days, observable only in the “outside” market, and also the firmness in quotations for Federal funds. Probabilities are that New York banks will pay off the bulk of their rediscounts this week and also build up their reserve balances again. Money should, therefore, tend to ease off again, although money brokers report an increasing demand for call money the past two days, which, if continued, will act as a firming .factor.
While the Federal Reserve appears willing to keep money easy, there is no evidence of an aggressive easier money policy. Open market holdings of the 12 Reserve banks, one of the chief factors in the money market, are currently only $788,000,000 as compared with $953,000,000 a year ago. These holdings are only about $100,000,000 larger than in 1928, when Reserve policy was anything but one of easy money.
examination of the current market situation reveals the fact that exactly opposite eondittons exist than prevailed during the summer of 1929," says J. S, Bache & Co. “Tangible data which may be said to influence the trend of prices are now distinctly unfavorable, whereas during the summer of 1929, such data eminently favored the constructive factions. On the other hand, all other considerations that may be said to exert a market influence are today of a favorable character, whereas during the middle of last year, they were unquestionably unfavorable.
"Hie tangible factors we refer to are steel ingot production, carloadings, motor production, building contracts, and electric power output. A glance at their respective movements shows that each currently occupies a depression figure in comparison with the prosperity figures
attained one and one-quarter years ago. The other considerations we refer to are the price to earnings ratio of securities, yields, money rates, brokerage loans, and the apparent size of the market's short interest. In each, of these factors, the existing condition is, in comparison with status during the summer of 1929, distinctly more favorable from a constructive standpoint. We draw the conclusion from the above that as other considerations In the summer of 1929 warned of the approaching peak of the bull market, so do these considerations today hint of tbe early termination of the bear market."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.