Large Offerings: Stocks Reach New Lows on Reaction --Some Late Recovery Large Offerings
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 19, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Stocks Reach JXVrv JLou:* on Reaction —Some Late Recovery
Further bad breaks took place in the principal stocks yesterday on scales of 6.425.60U shares, the largest volume of dealings since the turnover of 8.279,200 shares on May 5. Bearish professionals were given fresh courage by Tuesday’s drop in the Dow-Jones industrial average to below the level of resistance established at 230.89 on the secondary reaction of last December.
Selling operations were pushed with great aggressiveness m pivotal shares, and extensive liquidation was forced m active stocks through- ' out the list. Stock Exchange facilities were ' taxed by the avalanche of selling, and the tape ' lost ground until it was running more than an hour behind actual floor transactions.
Declining tendencies were given impetus bv the pessimistic character of the trade news. Copper metal reached a new low on the move- | ment at !!’•» cents a pound, and subsequent ! fl^Tning up to 12 cents came too late to ' be a stock market mfluence. Advices from ; the steel industry were extremely discouraging. • Emphasis was placed on continued uncertainties in the price situation, and operations were re- , ported to be substantially below ia&t week s Continued on Twentieth Pagt
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
C'eatmued /row tFtrxt Pap* levels. Automobile shares were forced to new lows an the current reaction on tile statement several companies were planning extensive curtailment of output next month.
With the trade situation in steel definitely-favoring their activities, the bear crowd exerted steady pressure against Steel common. Latter suffered a further sharp decline to new low ground for the year. At one stage. Steel -was only about 5 points above the ISO-level where the historic order for 200,000 shares was placed on the November collapse. Wall Street was speculating as to whether this support would -eappear at this time, but no information on he point was obtainable.
n *	*
W’lth. Steel leading the downward movement, substantial recessions from the highs of Tuesday's rally were reached by active stocks throughout the list. Utilities showed a decided lack of support, and additional sharp declines took place in Consolidated Gas. Electric Power Light, American &• Foreign Power and Public Service of New Jersey.
Stop-loss orders were caught in large numbers, and wholesale cleaning out of impaired marginal accounts went ahead. This improvement of technical conditions in the market found reflection in a better tone in the general list in the late afternoon. Moderate recoveries from the day’s lows occurred in Steel and other leaders, but price movements continued highly irregular.
• » • •
Steel reviews of the week made it plain that in spite of excellent business experienced by steel pipe manufacturing companies and growing demand for structural material, other factors were promoting further curtailment in the industry. The most serious source of slackening is the automobile trade, which has lowered its specifications sharply. There was general seasonal recession in other lines as well, forcing lower operating schedules for practically all companies.
Signing of the tariff bills seems to have had little effect on the steel trade and present conditions are not particularly attributable to it. as ferrous metal schedules underwent only minor changes. Price situation, while not exactly satisfactory, showed no wide open breaks and apparently there is resistance to lower prices developing. Scrap markets show little sign of life.. While there are no drastic cuts in that section, whatever changes have appeared are on the down side rather than the up side.
The outlook is not particularly encouraging, as there is not a great amount of interest on the part of consumers m third quarter needs. Talk continues about a revival toward the end of July, but no one seems to know how far the 1 decline will go m the meanwhile. One review j pointed out that the summer recession was set- I thng on the steel trade earlier than usual, which ■ seems amply borne out by the facts.
• • *
Difficulties obviously involved in estimating earnings prospects over the remainder of the year have caused many investors to switch from common stocks to bonds. This liquidation has been an influential factor in the recent severe decline in stock prices. Psychologically, this movement has had a depressing effect on the stock market as it was the enthusiasm of the public for stock investments which prolonged the great Coolidge upswing that started in 1923. With the general public losing its ardor for junior securities, and turning again to fixed obligations. investment students feel that new financing from now on will take tbe form of bond offerings more than stock fluctuations which have been the principal vehicles of corporate financing over the last several years.
*’This hysteria of selling—and no one knows how long it will continue and to what lengths it will go—is comparable, m my opinion, to the hysteria of buying last summei, and those who yield to it are controlled now by their fears as they were then by their hopes.” says John F. Harris, of Harris, Upham & Co.
”Is it not time to be governed, for a while at least, by our reason? The country is not suddenly impoverished—the government has not suddenly become anarchistic—crops have not failed—business is slightly, perhaps very slightly, better.	”
”It is possible the general circulation of people and products for 1930 may equal 192S. We were all optimistic and happy then. Why be thoroughly miserable and pessimistic now? Business is largely off from 1929, but are not the prices of securities off as much or more, and will not the movement from now of business be one of slow recovery?”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.