Broad Street Gossip: Shrinkage
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 21, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2	,
Broad Street Gossip
li rin Isa ye
The shrinkage in market values of the leading issues from their respective lxighs of the year, which has taken place chiefly since September IO. last, does not give one a true idea of the decline suffered by a majority of the stocks traded in on the Exchange.
Look over the list and you will find hundreds of stocks that have declined 50% to 75% t or more.	|
As an example. Republic Iron & Steel com- , mon has been off from its high of 79% this1 year to 18; Anaconda, Sl1^ to 341 : Glidden.' 3S to 10%; Hickel, 44% to 16%; Celotex. 60} to 9; Ludlum. 44% to 14%; Gobel, 19 to 5; U. S. Rubber. 35 to 11; U. S. Realty. 75% to 32: Warner Bros., 80% to 16%: Case, 362% to. 117%; Kennecott. 62% to 2G%; Chrysler, 43 to, 16%: and Auburn. 263% to 72’A.
On the Curb Exchange, the shrinkage has , been just as severe. Aluminum Co. of Amer- ; ica, which sold as high as 336 this year, re- ' cently sold at 160. The most active Curb issue. I Electric Bond & Share, is off from 117% to 50%.. | Those stocks aie only examples; there are I hundreds of others. The other extreme from last I year’s peak prices has been reached. l*rices of many stocks before the first big break in October, last year, may have been entirely too high. Many stocks are now entirely too low. Some are selling ex-bad earnings, ex-possibihty of reduced or passed dividends and everything else.
Make Up Your Minds!
Another optimistic note was supplied to the market tone by Baar, Cohen & Co. In widespread advertising this lirm, members of the Hew York Stock Exchange, announced:
••We believe the time has arrived when those who have been delaying the purchase of sound securities should make up their minds that current opportunities may nut be available a few months hence.”
Supply and Demand
The old rule of supply and demand still works. But, as always, the lines of industry’ that strive to keep production within bounds of consumptive requirements are more prosperous than those that do not.
Wealth
Pomeroy LaDue, public accountant of Detroit, writes to Broad Street Gossip as follows: "May I call attention to the paragraph in The Journal under Broad Street Gossip. Wednesday morning, October 15, headed •Wealth*? Is that not a misuse of the word wealth” Don’t you mean market value ? Professor Fisher in his book ‘The Theory of Interest,' and his earlier work, the ‘Nature of Capital and Income,’ defines wealth as ‘material objects owned by human beings.’ For instance, to mention but two examples, is not the book value of, say Anaconda, which 1 think is around $75 a share and which includes very liberal allowances for depiction, more nearly a correct measure of the wealth of that company’? The book value of Chrysler around $28. too is more nearly’ a measure of the value or the material objects possessed by that company. It would indeed be a great loss to the country if ‘wealth’ disappeared as suddenly as it would if measured by the temporary market prices of shares. The present constantly increasing loss of wealth is not due to fluctuations of market values, but to the lessened production of labor, which under the stimulus of money* and organization produces wealth. There probably is no permanent loss of total wealth of the country because perforce consumption is correspondingly reduced, and most of the wealth produced is consumed. If it is not produced, it cannot be consumed, and we are for the moment living on a lower standard of living.
“Further in the same paragraph, you state that $7,587,000,000 is one-tenth of the annual earning power of the people. The latest figure I have for the income of the people, in 1928 I think, places it around $88,000,000 which would make the shrinkage of market values in September around 1-12.
“Please don’t make our present dilemmas any worse. They are bad enough."
Silver
Silver production in July of this year, by companies which in 1929 turned out 87% of the world’s output, was 16,513,000 fine ounces, compared with 21.657,000 ounces in the corresponding month of last year, a reduction of nearly 24%. Production probably is less now than it was in July’, and will be even smaller if the plan to further reduce copper production is carried out. All of which convinces silver producers that the slump in the price of the metal in past.
No Worse
The Dow,Jones figures showed the industrial stock average at the close Saturday was 59.80 points below where it stood on September 10, last, and the railroads average 19.06 lower. That is a rather severe break, more than the
change in business conditions justifies. Business is not good, everyone knows that, but it is no worse than it was six weeks ago.
Every Stock Must IIxi>o An Owner
Wc repeat that there must be a buyer for every’ share of stock sold, and in the kind of a market wc have been having it is safe tp say that m must cases the buyer is better able to hold what he buys than the seller. For many of the sellers arc margin traders who are forced to sell all or jiart of their holdings.
Buying Power
Odd-lot' buying orders recently’ have reached large proportions, and adding machines are kept busy totaling odd-lot orders m the more popular stocks.
One day last week odd-lot buying orders in one very active stock aggregated close to 40,-U00 chares. In normal markets, buying orders of that size would have put the stock up sharply’.
News That Is News
For months past, the weekly trade and financial reviews of the big European countries have reeked with pessimism. Imagine the surprise of newspaper readers when they read such statements as the following in Monday’s newspapers: From London, “Pessimism is certainly* being overdone in America;” from Berlin, “Financial and business sentiment in Berlin underwent marked improvement during the pp.st week;” and another London dispatch saying, “London cheers up after a trying week."
A Year Ago
A year ago tuday the stock market displayed a greatly improved tone. American Can closed at 161%, up 1% points above the previous day’s close; A. T. & T. 287, up 4; Commonwealth & Southern 19%. up %; Com Products 125%, up 5%; General Electric 334, up 3; Kennecott 78%. lip 2%; Montgomery Ward 92%, up 2; Radio 80%, up 2%; Standard Oil of N. J. 77%. up 2; U. S. Steel 212%. up 1%; Westinghouse 215. up 6%. Call money renewed at 6%. later declining to 5%. Volume of sales was 4,129,800 shares.
How They Stand
Earnings reports, compared with those for the corresponding periods of a year ago, and dividend announcements by’ leading companies shape up as follows:
	Since Oct. 1	Additions Yesterday
Increased earnings ...	.. .	63-	5
Decreased earnings . . .	. . .	78	8
Unchanged dividends .	. . . 176	4
Increased dividends ...	. . .	19	1
Decreased dividends . .	. . .	23	• .
High and Low Prices
Monday, no stocks made new highs and 81 new lows for the year 1930 or longer.
New Lows—Abltibi Power pf; Adams Millis; Amer Car & Fdy pf; Amer & Foreign Power 6% pf; Amer & Foreign Power 7% pf; Amer La France; Amer Ship & Commerce; Amer Type Fdy; Amer Writing Paper ctfs; Atl Coast line; Atlas Pow pf; Atlas Strs; Bohn Alum; Cal & Ariz; Cal & -Hecla; Chic R I & Pae; Chic Yellow Cab; City Ice & Fuel pf; Clark Equip; Col Gas; Congoleum; Curtis Publ; Debenhams; Del <fc Hudson; D & R G W pf; Dominion Strs; Eaton Axle: El Auto Lite pf; Filenes Sons pf; First Nat Strs; Gen Cigar; Gen Gas 7% pf; Gen Rway Signal; Granite City; Gulf Mob & Nor pf; Hall Printing; Hartman A; Hartman B; Hayes Body; Hercules Motor; Inland Steel; Inspiration Copper; Insuransliarcs Del A; Insuranshares Del ct; Inter Lake; Int Match pt; Kennecott Copper; Kimbloy Clark; Lima Loco; McLellan Strs. Magma Copper; Mandel Bros; Marine Mid; May tag pf w w; Mich Steel; Nat Steel; Nat Surety; NY C & St L pf; New Haven; Pac Gas & Elect; Pac Mills; Phfla Co 6% pf; Pitts United; Poor & Co; Postel Tel & C pf; Pure Oil; Rep Steel pf; St L So West pf; Sharon St Hoop; Stand Brands; Sterling Sec; Stewart Warner; Studebaker; Superior Steel; Tex Pac C & O; Twin City R T; Un Cigars; U S Leather pr pf; Warren Bros; West Maryland; Willys Over.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.