Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 18, 1930; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
One at the greatest reversals in recent . months was staged on the Stock Exchinge yesterday. Selling waa resumed at the start and during the forenoon. many of the leading stocks were driven, down to new lows for the year, with little indication of active support. However, when pressure was relieved the market started a moderate come-back. Sears again attempted to halt the rally, tout found a much better demand in evidence, and in the afternoon the advance became a bear rout with short covering on a heavy scale and bears biddizur for stocks.
When attempts of the bears to halt the first recovery did not succeed, the belief spread that for the present, at least, the necessitous liquidation had been completed. In the past when minor rallies have gotten under way the shorts were able to check the upturns because their offerings brought new liquidation, but yesterday the forced selling seemed to be absent when the market moved ahead.	,
There were unusually sharp rallies in some leading stocks, which extended 5 or 10 points from the lows of the morning. The turn about came so suddenly that it caught many of the bears by surprise and the scramble during rh* last hour to take in short commitments was unusually large.
The action of the market had its influence on wheat. While July wheat, new contracts, broke to a new low level since July, 1901, during the forenoon, the late recovery In securities started short-covering in grains also and there were sharp rebounds in the afternoon.
Conservative observers were pointing to the recovery as indicating that it is dangerous to adopt the short side after a prolonged decline. They have been advising against putting out stocks for some days, because of the belief that a good technical recovery was long over-due. Most interests are urging clients against reaching for stocks on the rally. Those insisting upon taking a long position are being told to wait for reactions and then buy the leading stocks only on a downward scale, with stop orders slightly above the lows established during the early dealings yesterday.
Traders Bought
On Balance
Professionals and floor traders were putting out stocks during the forenoon, but the short covering in the afternoon was especially heavy and this element was a buyer on balance.
Outside scale accumulation of odd lots for investment continued during the early decline. The later advance attracted selling by the public, and the leading commission houses were credited with having sold on balance.
Secondary Selling Wav? Awaited
i Although many have said a technical rally was overdue, most market students are inclined to wait for a secondary wave of selling following any recovery. A few of them believe such liquidation might mark the end of the declining market, at least for a time. They do not look for any abrupt and prolonged recovery, because In their opinion market interests will be watching business developments closely. If conditions are considered satisfactory, a rather long period of dullness with stocks fluctuating within a comparatively narrow range may be experienced. In the past, such dullness with minor fluctuations marked periods of good accumulation.
Public Apathetic At the Moment
public apathy has been a factor in the market in recent sessions. A moderate amount of odd-lot buying has been reported during the sharp reactions, but no aggressiveness has been shown by outsiders.
The larger commission houses report that a vast number of their regular customers who often have been active in the past few years have liquidated long positions and are standing on the side lines. Those clients have credit balances and are Ln a position to buy stocks on a large scale, once they are convinced that a turn has come.
Liquidation Most Complete in History
The market liquidation which has been in progress for the last 15 months is said to be the most complete in the history of the Stock Exchange. Whether or not that is correct is beside the point. The fact remains that stocks have been moving downward for a long time and have been reaching levels which many believe discount the worst in the business picture. All classes—speculators, margin traders and investors—have been liquidating. In certain in-
stances, it has been forced by the impairment of margins. Eventually, if not already, the technical structure should be stronger than it has been in a long time.
Short Interest	.
Still Growing
Judging from arrangements made to borrow stocks for delivery, the short interest continued to grow until yesterday. Although considerable ©£ the selling recently has been liquidation, the larger demand for stocks for short interests indicated that bear pressure bad been an important factor in the sharp declines of the last week or 10 days.
A suspicion exists in some quarters that certain interests that have been compelled to sell securities to realize funds have been borrowing stocks around the Street to make deliveries, although they could have taken the shares from strong boxes if they had desired. That hw happened in the past. Frequently, such sellers repurchase the stocks sold in the open market, return the borrowed shares and bring their long position back to normal without disturbing actual holdings.
Railroad Weakness Most Disturbing	.
Weakness in the railroad group has been a most disturbing factor. A number of houses recently have advised customers to pick up the standard dividend paying carriers on the theory that any improvement in business •will be reflected almost immediately in heavier traffic for the railroads.
Substantial declines in those stocks unsettled sentiment and impaired accounts, so that selling in other groups followed. Little evidence of scale support in the rails has been seen, which is considered most unusual, considering the low prices established by many leaders.
Investment Demand in
Continental Can
A moderate investment demand has come into Continental Can, due to its recommendation by one or two houses because the can business has held up well this year and has encouraging prospects for 1931. The company is the second largest factor in its field. It has been extending its activities steadily in recent years, operating plants in many sections of this country and in Cuba. Sales for the first nine months of this year were reported officially to have been slightly in excess of those of the corresponding period of 1929. Last year, the company showed earnings equal to $5.02 a share on the 1.725.045 shares of stock, the only capital liability.
International Harvester Xet Better Than Estimated
International Harvester probably will show earnings this year of around $4.50 a share on the common stock. That Is in excess of estimates made several months ago. Business in the fourth quarter has been most satisfactory, having shown an Increase. That has been responsible for the upward revision in earnings predictions. In 1929, the company reported $7.10 a common share.
Beech-Nut Dividend Amply Covered
The annual dividend of $3 a share on Beeeh-Nut Packing was covered by a margin of more than 50*~r in the first nine months of the cur-ient year. Consequently the company will make a satisfactory showing in 1930. considering business conditions and the results obtained by other companies.
Liquidation in Oil Stocks
Persistent weakness in crude oil and gasoline prices has been discouraging holders of oil shares, and has been responsible for considerable liquidation in that group recently. Consistent supplying of some of the outstanding leaders in the industry has affected the entire department. About the only buying at times has come from shorts who had put out lines a few months ago and are willing to accept the profit now available.
General Railway Signal's Last Half Favorable
Normally, the last six months Is the best for earnings of General Railway Signal, and indications are that 1930 will be no exception. The company has been operating five days a week, and results in the last few months have been highly satisfactory, according to those close to the management. Unfilled orders at the beginning of next year will be the largest in the history of the company, so that prospects for at least the first half are considered favorable.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.