New Lows Seen: Steel Leads Further Declines in Principal Stocks New Lows Seen
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 23, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Steel Leads Further Declines in Prin-
-	ci pal Stpcks
Commodity markets continued unsettled at the week-end, and further bad breaks occurred in the principal trading stocks. Wheat prices rear ^ed new low ground since 1914. and cotton bro <e more than Si a bale.
Continued pressure on these commodities furnished & favorable background for bearish operations on the Stock Exchange. L-atter were ^additionally encouraged by the 7-point drop in ' the Dow-Jones industrial average. Friday, in face of the cut in the local bank rate and last week’s substantial reduction in brokers’ loans. Failure of the general list to bold Thursday’s rally, even with the help of such constructive wevelopmenta. was interpreted to mean that many stocks were still in a vulnerable position.
Proceeding on this theory, professionals launched another aggressive drive on pivotal shares. Special attention was devoted to Steel common, which was forced below its previous level of resistance at 155 to a new low for the year; With Steel giving ground under pressure, selling activities broadened, and substantial recessions took place in representative stocks throughout the list. Stop-loss orders placed just Continued on Strtfenth Pape
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
/row	Pape
‘beneath the recent lows were caught aU along the line, and. the market displayed a generally heavy tone.
News lows for the year were	by
Bethlehem Steel, Union. Carbide and American Can, and further sharp decline occurred in specialties like Eastman Eodak, 'Vanadium and Auburn. A slightly firmer tone developed toward the close on short covering by traders to even their accounts over Sunday. However, recoveries from the day’s lows were not extensive, and price movements continued Highly irregular in the final dealings. ^Thile transactions were not particularly heavy, the widespread character of the selling caused the tape to run about 12 minutes behind the ma-rket the greater part of the two hours*
• » *
Many important buyers of stocks are postponing commitments until a halt has been seen in the commodity price declines. They plan to make long-pull selections of standard stocks , when wheat and cotton show definite signs of turning upward. Meanwhile the market is confronted with the prospect of uninspiring earnings reports for the second quarter, and further dividend reductions and omissions. With thia outlook furnishing a favorable background for operations on the downside, and buying power in a passive state, or at least confined to a scale down, experience suggests that bearish professionals will make an effort to force Industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages below the level of resistance established at 198.69 on November* 13.
TT. S. Steel reached a low of 150 on the latter movement, and Saturday was depressed to new low ground for this year at 154. Indications of further curtailment of steel production in the next few months make it appear likely that a determined attempt will be made to push Steel below 150 for the depressing effect such a development would have on the rest of the market.
While shrewd observers admit there is nothing sacred about the November 13 lows, the precedent of other bear markets is taken as a criterion that they are not likely to be violated materially. Forthcoming bear drives are expected to give these levels severe tests, but if they are broken it is felt that the extension will not amount to much more than a reduplication of the panic lows of last November.
Moreover, further declines are expected to take the form of sagging movements rather than rapid declines on huge volume such as characterize the culmination of the first stages of a major decline. Experienced authorities point out that a bear market in all respects is a bull market reversed. In other words, a bear market is as unlikely to be completed on activity as is a major advance on dullness. For instance, the lows of 1921 were reached on an extremely small turnover in August, and were only inconsequentially below the levels of resistance established on great activity the preceding December.
Meanwhile, practiced students are anxiously scanning the economic horizon for signs of when the turn in business will come. It is a tradition in Wall Street that commercial expansion will develop just as soon as the interest rates for commercial paper firm up. Examinations of the charts for prime commercial paper, and for other business indices since 3.922 cause some observers to feel that a definite upward trend in commercial paper and general trade may come by October 1. Assuming that such a development is in the offing, the history of such situations makes it probable that weak spots in the market in the interim will be utilized for substantial accumulation of representative stocks.
• • •
Withdrawal of loans made through nonbanking channels will continue to affect the money market in future months, according to Dominick & Dominick. The shifting of the brokers’-loan burden to the banks may represent a return to the normal situation which prevailed before the stock market boom, and a generally stabilizing influence upon the country’s credit facilities.
Low interest rates hold little attraction for non-banking lenders, and the latter are believed to be turning to bonds and acceptances. While figures for this source of credit are largely a matter of speculation, reflection of this tendency lies in the course of "loans for account of others.** Since early October this class of loans has consistently diminished. The June 11 total of $1,146,000,000 was less than a third of last year’s high, and close to the levels prevailing in the spring of 1928 before the upward trend in rates.
Meanwhile, total security loans, although increasing by $356,000,000 during the last four months, remained at the end of Maj’ about $185,000.000 below the January 1 level. The relatively small advance in security loans as compared with a $677,000,000 increase in brokers’ loans during the same four-month period, may be attributed to the fact that individual borrowers are shifting from direct bank loans from their brokers. Contrary to conditions at this time last year, the latter source of credit offers generally lower rates than the banks.
Concern has sometimes been expressed for the growth in security loans during recent months. Aside from the fact that the total is *till well under the year-end figure of 1929 ard \>pears now to be further on the wane, the ferallel increase in stock valuations and new isting offers an interesting comparison. From January 31 to May 1, value of listed stocks increased $6,295,000,000, while new listings in the same period aggregated $3,071,000,000. The increase in security loans is obviously but a small fraction of these combined figures. While value of all listed stocks stands currently about $11,000,000 higher than at the beginning of the year, total security loans are nearly $200,000,000 less.
• • •
“Growing a little bit reminiscent, and trying to grab a crumb of comfort out of the past, Friday was the anniversary of the low level reached by the stock market in the panic of 1921,’* says Benjamin, Hill & Co. “It was the day of the greatest gloom that Wall Street knew after the readjustment that followed the war inflation. Business was bad, inventories were high, and the future was dark.
•‘On that day the Dow-Jones averages stood at 64.90 for 20 industrials, and 65.52 for 20 rails. The summer was dull and the stock market fluctuated within narrow ranges. Every day was bargain day in Wall Street, but only the far-sighted took advantage of the prices at which the vendors of securities were willing to part with their wares.
•‘But about the middle of August the business horizon began to clear and the market felt the inspiration of the first few glints of sunlight that began to herald the dawn of a brighter day. Hurry calls were sent to absent partners and clerks to return from their vacations, and or August 24 the first phase of the greatest bull market the country has ever known was inaugurated. History has repeated itself many Mmes in Wall Street.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.