Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 5, 1931; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
Ey Ttichard E. EdmoTt^son
Stocks emerged to moderately higher levels out of a senes of irregular price movements on Stock Exchange yesterday. Although the election returns apparently strengthened the Democratic position in Congress, the financial community paid little attention to this development. It was felt that the adminstratlon would find general support tor its measure to promote trade revival.
Of oustanding interest to Wall Street in the news over the holiday were the developments in the railway wage situation. Considerable disappointment was occasioned by the refusal of union employes of Canadian railroads to acquiesce in a voluntary reduction of 10'.. Following this turndown, rail companies in the Dominion applied to the Department of Labor for the appointment of a board to arbitrate the matter.
• • •
However, the unfavorable psychological effect of the Canadian events had an offsetting influence in the decision of the American brotherhoods to extend an invitation to the railway executives for a joint conference. This evidence of a conciliatory attitude on part of railway labor in this country encouraged hopes of a constructive outcome of the wage conversations, and stocks scored general gains in the early dealings.
Toward the end of the first hour, however. fresh reactionary tendencies appeared in pivotal shares, due to selling that followed a lower opening in wheat prices. Although the declines in wheat of two to throe cents from Tuesday’s highs largely represented profit-taking attracted by the recent sweeping advances, the setbacks had an adverse influence on the share hat. Pivotal shares yielded their initial gams, and dropped generally below Monday's closing levels.	“
Wheat Stages Rally
But offerings of the principal stocks on recessions were relatively small, and showed a pronounced tendency to dry up as prices worked lower Th.s absence of liquidation checked the decline, and trading turned extremely dull m a narrow price range	*
During the afternoon, the mmn body of stocks turned upward agam *n the wake of a renewed advance m wheat prices Latter rose sharply to new highs for ’.he season after the maiket had absorbed realizing sales m substantial volume.
Wheat’s * performance strengthened the belief that the upswing was being promoted by basic factors rather than misguided speculate e enthusiasm. Since the emergence from the depression of the country’s major cereal constitutes the most hopeful economic development in more than IS months, its stimulat.ng influence on the stock market was readily understandable.
Brisk advances took place m many sections of the share list m the late afternoon. Special demand was in evidence for the stocks of companies doing business with the former, particularly Sears Roebuck. Woolworth, and J. I Case.
Hail Bonds Show Improvement
Wh.le rail stock® were generally dull, tne i action of railway bonds suggested that no little satisfaction was felt o\er the outcome of Monday ® meeting of the leaders of 21 railway labor organizations m Washington At tbi« assembly. on agreement was reached to confer w*th the railway executives on the problems involved m wage scales, and the alleviation of unemployment among railroad workers
Since ra*hvay bonds would benefit directlv from any adjustment of exiFtific wage scale® it was logical that steps tn this direction shoj’J find immediate reflection in securities of th.s group.	*	*
Other classes of bonds also displayed a fairly strong tone, with foreign obligations con-
tinuing their recent persistent apprec ation. Quiet improvement in foreign bonds ha« followed the Hoover-Laval conferences, and the Nationalist victory in the British election With international affairs gradually showing signs of greater stability, foreign bonds have enjoyed relief from pressure, and their better action has eliminated a source of unsettlement in securitv markets generally.	’
Steel Output Expands
Steel news continued encouraging, tions for the past week were reported ter than 30' r of capacity, compared shade over 2S*>r the week before and
tion less than that figure two weeks .	__
was at this time a year ago, and tn the two preceding years, that declining operations were noted. The current upturn, therefore, somewhat out of season and may represer: a belated resumption of operations in lines Tbi® appears to be true of the automo- : live industry'. where operations arr being ' stepped up after extended- shut-downs for the 1 past month or more.	:
Steel producers are restraining their optimism, because of past disappointments, but f there is no denying that demands for ?tcc’ prod- i nets have taken on a broader appearance than in many months, which probably reflect® deplored fho trqHo	<->r thr*
hope that November, at least, will pr.wo a month of r.sing operations.
Txian Docrt'a'>o Smaller
While this past weeks condition ‘‘tv.c’r.crt of reporting member banks in leading cit.c® not actively bullish, it is. nevertheless, enco.irg-ing m that it reflects a decided slow ng down in the rate of credit liquidation Tc’V. loans and investments declined onlv S6S.cn g goo, as compared with S212.000 000 the proved week, and S1SS.000.000 and 54IS 000.000. re- ctivcl\\ in the two weeks before that.	*	1
Loans declined only 520.000.000 last	the
smallest drop since September 2. Whc -rr these figure® mean that credit deflation is r - jt over cannot bo sa.d. but it is somewhat rea- ir.ng tn see that wholesale deflation has at le'-t temporarily stopped	*	■
As vet there are r.o indications t- banks outside of large c.tics have even a proached the end of defiat.on Reserve depos.-. ef non-reportmg member banks a:e st-.ll shrinking rapidly, md.eating that deposits of th- -e banks, and probably loans also, are being 1 -u.dated. Country banks are still increasing t"‘ r borrowings from the Federal Reserve barKs ’
Norfolk X Western
Norfolk & Western common has been acting well marketwise Around 142. it is sC .nR a't 10 times estimated earnings for 1931 Norfolk & Western and Chesapeake Jt Ohio are the only major reads that tv .11 show the usual dividend uisbursements amp’v covered this year despite • he s.acstening demand for coal, the.r principal traffic, due to low industrial activity.
Norfolk has been pay.ng a total of S12 a share for the past three tears and attracted little market interest for a long per.ed, selling at a hgbe- y.cld and less times earn r.gs than such roads as Atchison Vn.cn Pat fic Central and Chesapeake & Oh.o. It is a h.gh v developed property, having spent ov< r St‘>0.000 000 or. capital improvements m th» past decade *'.-bou. financing Current assets e-.. eer'ecl current ’..abilities bv 555 000 000 at the c’o>.e of 1930
Working control of Norfolk -s neid by Pcnr.-svlvania and its road := a vita’ adjunct to the latter system. but other interests are strongly intrenched on the beard of c.rect'.— . Any overtures by the Pennsylvania for tne balance of stock m anv consolidation move w,.l be .ntercst-mg Fcr the past several yen*-s Penn a ama has been acquiring additional no.-imgs of Norfolk in the open market
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.