Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 9, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Btf HicharH E. Edmondson
of sales necessitated night operations which will be started Monday. '
Indications that sales of the larger merchandising organizations should shortly be running ahead of a year ago also brought active buying into^Sears Roebuck. Latter staged a good-sized advance to new high ground on the current movement. Sears has succeeded in getting such a splendid grip on its operating expenses that any increase in gross undoubtedly will find prompt reflection in net earnings. Although the company’s sales fell off’$9,588,000 in the first 12 weeks of 1931, net dropped only $200,000, affording a measure of the progress made in reducing overhead.
However, the market generally moved on an even keel through, the morning, showing amazing indifference to the action of Ste€l and American	Advancing tendencies spread through-
out the list during the middle of the day when Steel and Can recovered from their earlier sinking spells, and rose above Thursday’s final levels.
With the two industrial leaders showing relief from pressure, vigorous buying activities appeared in many sections of the list. General Motors was taken in large blocks at rising prices, 'and Woolworth showed similar activity on the upside. After a period of uncertainty In the early afternoon, the upswing in the general list picked up momentum during the last hour.
Urgent short covering came into stocks recently under severe pressure, and substantial rallies took place from the recent lows. call money down to 1%	“	'
charge of -	-
throughout the list, vigorous advance in the utilities, and New York Central in the carrier department. *	‘
was a feature of the specialty market as a whole displayed a the final dealings.
1% %.
With from the renewal the upswing broadened Consolidated Gas led a
Auburn class, and the strong tone in
on hopes of a the company's
In addition to* active buying distribution from segregation of foreign subsidiaries, Woolworth’s further advance was propelled by greater optimism regarding the company’s business prospects. Comparison of sales thus far in 1931 has been made with a period in which the company’s business set new high records. Yet the turnover for the first four months this year was only 1.4% below the corresponding 1930 period.
In May’. 1930, Woolworth’s sales began to decline, in keeping with the depression in general business. Hence, it is likely that by June of this year the company will be showing sales results ahead of a year ago. Owing to low production costs, Woolworth is now offering the largest variety of goods in its history within the 5-and-10 cent price range. For this reason, some interests predict Woolworth this year will earn a record margin of profit and show record net earnings for the stock.
Woolworth’s nomination as an outstanding favorite of the bull forces was in line with the marked selectivity recently shown by buying operations. Interests taking long positions on a large scale have been careful to pick out the shares of companies whose business is starting to show signs of improvement.
Recent powerful support in General Motors has been based chiefly on the outlook that the corporation will show a balance of better than $1 a common share out of its second quarter earnings. As only 61 cents a common share was reported for. the first quarter, such an arhipyprnpnt will be necessary to fulfill J. J. Raskob’s prophecy that the corporation’s earnings for the first half of 1931 would be 20% ahead of dividend requirements.
Wall Street has learned that it may take Mr. Raskob’s predictions regarding General Motors’ earnings at their face value. Consequently, confident buying has been coming into the stock in the belief that General Motors is a logical leader of any recovery in the general market. Its prospective showing for the June quarter will register the second consecutive gain over the preceding three months.
Sales increases which have resulted from the more aggressive advertising policy of K. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. have resulted In a stronger market for the' stock. For quite some time a year or so ago Reynolds did little newspaper advertising, and its rate of sales increase probably slowed up. Last year this advertising was resumed, and this year it has been on an even heavier scale. The resultant stimulation
Drug was another issue of the merchandising class which was' active around the best levels of the present upswing. Drug has been receiving support thus far in 1931 at constantly higher levels. Thus, its low was 61% in January. 67 in February, 70% in March, and 71% in April.
This ascending scale of accumulation has conformed to the company’s earnings, which are estimated to have run 5% ahead of a year ago in the first quarter of z 1931, and continued to improve since then. With the present $4 dividend basis on the stock fortified by last year’s balance of $6.03 a share, and with profits in an upward curve, Drug has been singled out as a favorite by several Stock Exchange houses.
Initial results from *the Federal Reserve’s newi campaign to make money easier can already be discerned in the weekly bank statements. There is direct evidence that some funds are moving out of New York City, notably through the calling of brokers* loans for account of out-of-town banks and individuals, and prfrtlyxthrough a reduction in out-of-town balances. In addition, foreign correspondents of the Federal Reserve banks have asked the latter to sell bankers* acceptances held for their account.	.	'
In the past two months Reserve bank holdings of acceptances purchased for foreign account have declined $59,509,000. Some .of the funds released have been reinvested by foreign banks in more lucrative channels, while some have been entirely withdrawn from New York. This is all part of the hoped-for movement of funds out of short-term Investments into longer term forms.
While the volume of Federal Reserve Bank credit outstanding has been increasing as a result of Reserve policy, the bulk of the recent increase has been “sterilized”	*	’
banking disturbances in various parts of the country.	‘	‘	---------	-
the week of May 6, for example, which is an un-seasonal move and can only be explained by a certain amount of hoarding by individuals and by the desire of banks to have larger currency reserves in their vaults.
However, it is encouraging to note that the unusual increase in circulation which had been going on in the Chicago Reserve district has apparently come to an end. On March 25 circulation of Federal Reserve notes in Chicago was $165,303,000, and by April 22 this had increased to $225,368,000. During the past two weeks, however, the movement has been reversed, indicating a return of confidence by both banks and depositors in that district.
as a result of
Circulation increased $4.2.000,000. in
“No fundamental change for the better in business is yet discernible, but in the past the market frequently has established a bottom some months before the absolute bottom in a business depression was registered.” says Redmond & Co. “For instance, the low point in U. S. Steel’s monthly earnings in the post-war depression was not reached until January. 1922, when the corporation reported net of $4,654,000. In June of the same year, they had jumped to $10,712,000. Steel common, however, had touched a low of >0’4. on June 23. 1921, and did not br^k below 82 in the following year. On October 16. 1922, it sold at 111%.
“Regular dividends at the annual rate of S5 were paid in 1921 and 1922, althougn the corporation earned only $2.24 a share ’" and $2.84 in 1922. In 1923 it earned share.
“General Motors showed a deficit 680,770 in 1921. On January 4, 1922, the regular quarterly dividend, of 25 cents a share on the common stock was passed, and the next day it touched a new low at 8%. Six months later it was selling at 15 ii, and the corporation ended the year with net profits of $51,807,448.
“The Dow-Jones industrial average had reached the bottom of the post-war depression on August 24, 1921 at 63.90, or five months before U. S. Steel had reached the low point of its earnings, by which time it had rallied to around 80. or 25% above the August low. In September, 1922, the average crossed the 100-mark.”
in 1921, $16.42 a
of $38,-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.