Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 21, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
By Rickard E. Edmondson
Railroad stocks used in tbe Dow-Janes averages set up a new record low yesterday. closing at 45.09. This figure compared with the previous resistance' level for the 1929-21 major decline of 45.68, established October 5. It was tbe lowest price touched by pivotal earner shares the history of tbe Dow-Jones averages, running back to November 2. 1896.
In addition to the unfavorable action of the rails, tbe main body of stocks was disturbed by weakness in United States Steel common. Downward tendencies picked up momentum throughout the list after Steer had broken through its previous 1931 level of 62Kt, touched early last month. In dropping under this point. Steel reached its lowest price since 1915, when it sold at 38. Since then, however, the corporation paid a stock dividend of 40G, distributed June 1, 1927.
Steel common led a further general decline in the main body of stocks today. Downward tendencies picked up momentum throughout the list after Steel had broken through its previous resistance level for the 1929-1931 major decline of 62’.*, established early last month. In selling under this point. Steel reached its lowest price since 1915 when it. touched 38. However, since then the corporation paid a stock dividend of 40*7, distributed June 1, 1927.
About the only immediate development In the outside news that could account for the renewed pressure on the share list was a sharp break in the wheat market Prices at Chicago broke nearly 3 cents a bushel on beneficial rains in the Southwest, which afforded material relief to drought conditions in that area.
Developments in the banking situation were generally favorable. Further evidence of the revival of public confidence was afforded in last week’s reduction of $46,000,000 in money in circulation, bringing the decrease for the past fortnight to $72,000,000 In addition, the main body of stocks was furnished another constructive influence in last week’s further contraction of $56,000,000 in brokers’ loans, reducing the total to $775,000,000, a new record low. At last week’s rate of decrease, the remaining loan account would be wiped out entirely in 3’-_ months
However, a response to these favorable factors was held in restraint by further pressure on Steel common during the early dealings After breaking to a new low on the movement in Thursday’s late trading, the premier industrial extended its downward progress under good-sized offerings.
Selling Gains Volume
With Steel working gradually lower, a similar trend was shown by other pivotal industrials and utilities. Rails were subjected to pressure on the snags encountered in the wage negotiations. and new lows on the movement were reached by New York Central Atchison Union Pacific and other leaders of the carrier division Selling picked up greater breadth and activity during the afternoon when wheat prices ex-
tended their recessions to around four cents a bushel. Steel broke below 62 s* during the fourth hour, and this development was followed by a substantial outpouring of stocks throughout the list
Spasmodic interruptions of the decline were occasioned by flurries of covering in shares in which large short accounts were outstanding. Howevex, fresh offerings greeted moderate recoveries. and the list continued generally under j pressure in the ia^e afternoon.
i	Traders Sell on Rallies
l In view of the tendency of rallies in recent sessions to fade away before the close, traders generally have been pursuing a policy of assuming short positions on strong spots. Speculative operations for the decline have been increased by the unfavorable action of the rails, with the result that a substantial expansion has taken place in the outstanding short interest during the present week. This situation has found reflection in a growing demand for stocks m the loan crowd.
American Can is currently commanding a borrowing premium TTf J-32* ». with smaller premiums on V S Steel common. Allied Chem-icul. American Telephone. J. 1. Case. Coca Cola Crucible Steel. Kastman Kodak. International ‘Salt Reading and Union Pacific. Piaeticallv * all the other active shares are loaning flat.
i	Hallway Mnge Negotiations
Wall Street was disappointed over the program for unemployment relief presented to the railway executives by the union brotherhoods at the conference, which the executives had hoped would be devoted strictly to the matter of a 10'r voluntary reduction in wages In citing figures claiming that 400.000 railway workers were earning less than $20 a week, and that another 600.000 were making less than $30 weekly, the
labor interests demonstrated that they were not disposed to come to an ageement without putting up a stiff fight.
Another proposal that was regarded as blocking progress in the matter was the suggestion of the Railway Labor Executives’ Association that a reserve fund should be created by the appropriation of surplus railway earnings in good times up to an amount estimated as necessary to maintain earnings of employes during periods of depression. It was proposed that in such periods, hours of service should be reduced without reduction of earnings, defraying the added costs of employing the same number of men for less traffic out of these employment reserves.
However, it was recognized that labor men, due to politics in their organizations, were under the necessity of advancing arguments against voluntary wage reductions. In view of ihis situation, hopes were not abandoned that early success would be attained in mending the differences between the two parties m the wage controversy.
Pennsylvania Railroad
Pennsylvania Railroad, at current levels, is selling around the lowest price touched since 1877. the year of the Pittsburgh riots, when the company suffered loss in revenues through suspension of all freight traffic at that point for a period of 10 days, as well as loss and damage to property. The stock, sold then at 24^. In 1876, before the cloud of the Pittsburgh disturbances had appeared, the price range on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange had been high 58and low 45.
Record high was made in 1929 at 110.
For many years trading in Pennsylvania shares was confined to the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. The stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in December, 1900. and later was admitted to the London Stock Exchange. In recent years, in recognition of the wide distribution of the shares, the stock was also listed on tbe Boston and Chicago Stock Exchanges.
Chesapeake & Ohio
Report of Chesapeake & Ohio Railway for the ten months ended October, showing net income equal after dividend requirements on the preferred stock, to $3 16 a share on the 7 651,281 common shares, is an unusually good .showing, in view of results of other roads. For •he year. Chesapeake & Ohio should report at least S3 60 a share on the common, and the management is hopeful that net will better $3 80 a common share. Even at tbe lower figure, Chesapeake & Ohio would have earned its common dividend requirements for the year almost J ’ t imes.
So far in November. Chesapeake & Ohio’s coal loadings have shown a decline, due in large part to unseasonably warm weather. With colder wrathe:. there should be a sharp pickup m coal loadings, which would be reflected in earnings.
Biuik Statement* Cheering
Weekly bank statements were the most encouraging that have appeared for many months Outstanding, of course, was the $46 000.000 re-)>orted decline in currency in circulation. The total is now $5 471.000.000. or slightly below the figures of the last two weeks of October. Ordinarily the mid-November total is above that of late October. This would seem tp be clear indication that at last currency is definitely coming out of hoarding and returning to banks.
A striking example of what happens when panic has ceased to influence financial actions, is the recent return flow of gold to this country Our monetary gold stock has increased $83,000,000 since October 28.
Shrinkage in tbe nation’s credit base, as measured by Federal Reserve credit outstanding and gold holdings, has been substantial since October 28 Reserve credit outstanding has declined $266,000,000 whereas gold holdings increased only $83,000,000. This reflects the deflation of bank credit th a thas been going on without interruption until this past week, and which decreased total deposits of reporting member banks m leading cities by $1,513,000,000 in the two months ended November JI.
Whether the S25.000.000 increase m member bank reserve deposits reported this past week means that a turn in liquidation has come cannot be said at this time, since a one-weck fluctuation is without significance as a rule. As far as the New York City banks are concerned, the expansion of bank credit this past week, amounting to $22,000,000. was slightly smaller than m corresponding weeks of recent years.
The easier trend m the money market seems to indicate that there is still little demand for credit, notwithstanding the rapid contraction of the credit base in the past three weeks.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.