Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 14, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
Eu Richard E. Edmondson
Successful efforts were made in the week-end session to start a. secondary reaction following tiie abrupt recovery in Friday’s trading. Disappointment was manifested in speculative quarters over the failure of widespread reports of an overnight announcement from Washington to find fulfillment.
Attempts to translate this feeling into lower stock prices at first made headway only in individual issues. While the approach of the Westinghouse Electric directors’ meeting, at which action will be taken regarding the $4 dividend, the stock was again subjected to pressure, and made further progress into new low territory for the bear market.
Allied Chemical was another pivotal industrial which broke through previous resistance levels on the major decline. Reading, whose $4 dividend will come up for consideration on September 24, was a weak spot in the railway division, reaching its lowest levels since 1909. Delaware A Hudson likewise was under pressure, dipping to a new low since 1923.
With special stocks showing pronounced heaviness, the selling movement broadened as the brief ssesion progressed. Particular disturbance 'was caused by a sharp decline in American Telephone, which reached its lowest levels since early June on active offerings.
Various specialties with thin markets experienced good-sized recessions, including Auburn, Eastman Kodak, and Superheater. Activity picked up on the downside during the last hour, and the whole market was heavy in the final dealings. At the close, industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages were only about 2 points above the bear market low of 121.70, standing at 123.85, a decline of 4.38 points on the day. Rails ended the session at 59.44, a new low since April 21, 1898.
Traders Sell on Rallies
Considerable selling came into the market for the account of. traders who had picked up long lines around the recent lows in anticipation of a technical recovery. Profit-taking on speculative holdings of this character was based on the belief that rallies at this juncture were likely to prove short-lived, and that the general list would be subjected to further tests of its position in the next few days.
After six consecutive sessions of steadily declining prices, with the volume averaging approximately 2,000,000 shares, it had been figured that an upturn could be engineered against the shorts. When this conclusion proved justified, traders were ready to cash in, feeling that a secondary reaction would be seen, even if .the market was destined to enjoy a more substantial advance in the immediate future.
In connection with the rebound from Friday’s lows, widespread reports were in circulation that some important constructive announcement was ready to emanate from Washington. Most rumors referred to the possibility of action toward legalizing light wines and beer as a step to stimulate business recovery. In view of this situation, realizing sales were given impetus by the thought that people who expected prompt measures in this regard would probably be disappointed. So many political ramifications are involved in the question that bitter controversy will undoubtedly attend efforts to push the beer movement. Hence, it was felt that any improvement marketwise. based on this prospect, was likely to be accompanied by pronounced irregularity.
However, important Interests are of the
opinion that some stimulating developments may take place in administration circles, entirely aside from, the agitation over the prohibition problem. These people contend that forces are actively at work in the highest banking quarters, as well as in political quarters at Washington. to take another step in the right direction toward reorganization of European finances. Some sources, close to the Treasury, have expressed themselves recently as being more optimistic than in many months. Consequently, Wall Street is watching developments at Washington with mounting interest.
Rockefeller Buying Reported
Accumulation of Standard of New Jersey by Rockefeller interests is reported to be currently taking place in the most substantial volume since the memorable order for 1,000,000 shares was placed at 50 to check the decline in the stock during the hectic days of the October-November collapse of 1929. While there has been no verification of the story of Rockefeller buying at this time, it is knov,n that influential investment interests have been taking good-sized amounts of Standard of New Jersey on recent weak spells.
It is recognized that the season of the year is not favorable to earnings of oil companies, with the months of low consumption approaching. However, people conducting the buying of Standard of New Jersey feel that tAs situation may be more than offset by constructive developments in the industry with relation to cutting down crude output. Meanwhile, oil shares have been drastically liquidated. Many investment trusts have parted with their holdings of petroleum shares, and the amount of stock now overhanging the market is believed to be relatively small.
Macy Ar Co. In Favor
Macy & Co. has been a recent favorite of scale accumulation in merchandising shares in view of the approaching months in which the company does its best business. Interest in the stock has been increased by the expanded facilities of the New York store, which are now available in time to take advantage of the normal seasonal gain in sales. With a 19-story addition to the local unit, the latter now has 25% more floor space, and officials estimate that it is capable of handling nearly 50% more business.
While Macy is understood to be currently enjoying the largest business of its history, earnings this year will be affected by expenses incident to the new building, and rearrangement of the old facilities. However, the 1931 balance for the stock is expected to compare favorably with the showing of $4.81 a share reported for 1930.
Missouri Pacific
Missouri Pacific preferred has been working lower. Several months there was good prospect of a big grain movement but with low prices for the commodity, large quantities remain on the farms and that moving is to nearby elevators, cutting the immediate revenues to the carriers. Road earned $1.77 a preferred share in the first seven months against $1.36 in like period of 1930 and August loadings were 15% below h year ago, with the last half of the month registering a decline of 17.5%. In order to show $5 on preferred it will be necessary’ to earn $2,273,263 in the last five months or a decline of 36.6% from actual results of $3,583,746 in 1930 period. This compares with a decline in net income of 59.3% from a year ago in the preceding seven months.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.