Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 2, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Sy WHUam. J. Gombgr
AHtr	steady to	during mart of
the aeeslosx yesterday* the stock -market encountered heavy liquidation, -and short selling; in the late afternoon* XT. 3. Steel common. bore the brunt of the pressure. This pivotal issue declined to a new low for the downward, movement* and its weak, action -was reflected in other directions. Bethlehem Steel for a time held comparatively well as a result of the declaration of the dividend of 51 a share* hut this stock also went down in the late dealings. Hurried selling came from outsiders who had tried for a profit oh the recovery^ movement* increasing the supply substantially. The final tone was weak.
Inability of the market to carry through on the latest rally was a keen disappointment to those who had hoped for a longer upturn. As a result, they have become cautious again and are advising that stop orders be placed in the market at prices near those now prevailing.
They are keeping customers away from the long side.
Commission House* Bought on Balance
Considerable buying came from commission houses during the first three hours or so and, although outside selling was heavy in the late dealings, the leading firms bought on balance. Professionals and floor traders eold stocks during the advances, and covered shorts during the late decline. This element sold on balance.
Short Covering Heavy By Outsiders
“Short covering was heavy by outsiders during the rally -this week. Because the market had failed to carry through on the rallies, there were many who adopted the short side after they had disposed of their long posltiona The sharp recovery frightened these sellers into covering on a large scale. As most of the orders were "at the market,” they had substantial effect. Important bear traders who have been short for a long time, and therefore have the benefit of a good average selling price, maintained their short lines intact.
Brokers’ Loans	-
Down 6JL8%
.Brokers* loans for the past week decreased 5114,000,000, or 6.18%, compared with a drop during the period, of 13.82 points in the industrial average. A large decrease had been anticipated, because of the heavy liquidation In progress. Loans by local member banks were off 582,000,000; those of out-of-town institutions, 527,000,000; and those from “others", 55,000,000, to 5219,000,000, a new low record.
Demand borrowings decreased 5107,000,000 to 51,382,000,000, while time loans were down 57,000,000 to 5348,000,000. Borrowings on securities by non-brokers were up 522,000,000, the first gain reported in many weeks, indicating that there was some outside buying during the week.
Many Deliveries Out Of Strong Boxes
The rally in the market caused many deliveries to be made out of the strong boxes. The sellers of these stocks had been borrowing around the Street, leading to the belief that the short interest was larger than actually existed. It is normal for such sellers to deliver the stocks from their boxes when a rally comes.
Rediscount Bate Was Maintained-
Part of the covering late on Thursday was based on the confident feeling that a reduction would be made in the Federal Reserve rediscount rate, and that the influence on the market would be favorable. Some of the selling in the early dealings yesterday came from the buyers of late Thursday who were disappointed because the rediscount rate was maintained.
Union Pacific’s 19S1 Earalngs
Despite the reduction in the Illinois Central dividend, authorities on railroad securities are confident that Union Pacific this year will show earnings considerably in excess of -the current dividend rate of 510 a share. It is contended that the prospective tonnage of steel, cement and other materials for the Hoover dam construction which will be transported over the Union Pacific will benefit the earnings in the future.	I
Advertising Aiding Tobacco Companies
Although stocks of the leading cigarette makers have suffered at times recently during the periods of general selling in the market, there is said to have been quiet scale accumulation on .the decline in some of the issues. The buying was based on the theory that the intensive advertising campaigns of the various companies have increased their sales volumes and in the long run that -will increase net earnings for the various stocks.
Bethlehem’s Earnings Surprise Street
Bethlehem Steel's earnings of 6 cents a share for the common stock in the first quarter surprised the financial district, despite reliable predictions that results would be between 5 cents and 10 cents a share on the stock. The
declaration erf the gl a share dividend for the •quarter also was unexpected by many* although it bad been forecast.
When the report of U. S. Steel for the first quarter was issued earlier in the week, showing only 5 cents a share on its common stock, there was a tendency to revise estimates downward on Bethlehem. Prior to the meeting after the dose Thursday, the Street seemed	that
Bethlehem would not cover its dividend on the preferred stock* with some saying the common distribution would be emitted. As a matter of fact, ^Bethlehem’s showing was exceptionally good in comparison with other reports in view of its lazier charges for depreciation and interest In the first quarter.
Moderate Improvement In du Pout Business	#
Market interests who often have been well informed on the affairs of du Font state that the business of the company has shown a moderate Improvement thus far in the second quarter. It Is said that four of the company’s eight main lines are^xunning somewhat ahead of last year, notably the cellophane and rayon divisions. The other four are lagging. Including lines of explosives, which should pick up if building improves.
Basis for Selling In American Can
Some of the selling which came into American Can a day or two ago was based on the belief in same quarters that tin plate production bad seen its high for this year. Naturally, this was looked upon as a reflection of lessened activity on the part of the can makers* due to a smaller demand for containers. Authorities in the steel industry maintain that no one is in a position to state that tin plate output has reached its peak for 1931. Some of them are confident that there will be a steady demand for the product from can makers throughout the year.	’
XT. S. Realty's Prospect*	.
U. S. Realty’s rental business is reported to have remained stable, but earnings of the company have been affected by the lowered receipts from the hotel operations. Costs of operating the hotels have been curtailed to a considerable extent by increased efficiency and economies. However, transients are said to be seeking lower priced accommodations, and that has reduced revenues.
Kroger Grocery An Exception
Kroger was one of the exceptions to the general downward trend early this week. Between March 28 and April 29, when industrial averages lost 30.45 points, the stock has shown practically no change in price after -miner fluctuations. Some interests contend that the current earnings of the company are better thu-n anticipated in many quarters. Although no quarterly reports are published, estimates in the Street have indicated that 80 cents a share was earned in the first three months.
Transamcrica Not
Selling Bnnlc Holdings
Transamerica Corp, has not sold and does not contemplate sale of • any of its large bank holdings. At the sense time, no change has taken place in respect of any of the large stock interests in Transamerica itself. Operation of Transamericu Corp, and its subsidiaries is proceeding along definitely formulated policy lines which have not changed in recent weeks. There has been no arrangement made to take over any important properties of the company ofany important share holdings of the executive group by any nehr interest, and none is likely.
How They _
Stand
Earnings reports as compared with those for the corresponding periods of last year, and dividend announcements as compared with the previous ones of leading companies follow:
Since		Additions
	April 1	Yesterday
Increased earnings .	...112	1
Decreased earnings .	...441	12
Unchanged dividends	. .236	8
Increased dividends	... 6	
Decreased dividends	... 39	3
Omitted dividends . •	...25	
High and
Low Brices
Friday 4 stocks made new highs and 46 new lows for the year 1931 or longer.
YTIene* ® pf.
AllexCpf wwxl ABmke Nl> AraljiFran pt Am Hhlphld*. Am Nmeltlny AmtlteXIcb A Brtinsw’k Trr California Fk. Canadian l*nc Celanme Am. Ch Pneu ct pf City Stnr** A D A JRG W pf H»k Rnb 1 pf Florahelm A Gamewell Co
New Sighs I^hVICoal pf Nonuida Mln.
New Lows Geu Cable A. Grt Nor pf Gulf Mob X X JU Cent X.U.. Indian Mot pf lot A*r> prpf Kinney Co Kinney Co pf. Leb Port C pf f.ehl*h Valley I.lQfud Carb . McGrowH I*b X Y Central OtlH Stl pr pf Phlja'jfe C * 1
X X Ont a TV
Phil Jonee pf Prod * Ker pf Pania Alec <-t Bitter Dental StLSouthw pt Shell Ub Oil. SkellyO pfww Noiret pf ww Nun oil....
Texas Gulf Nn TidewAwor pf Twin City BT V 9 Steel.... Cole Pie 1 pf. Weet Pae pf.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.