Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 19, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
B// Richard R. Rdmondson
Dealings in the main body of stocks turned dull and narrow yesterday following good-sized declines during the first hour. Renewed selling was attracted by the sluggish character of Tuesday’s recovery, which amounted to slightly more than a point in the Dow-Jones industrial average, and was confined to fractional proportions in the railroad and utility compilations.
This small rally after six consecutive sessions of declining prices created pessimism in speculative quarters. Moreover, unsettling factors were provided by general breaks in grain prices, and by the disruption of the world conference on copper production without any ngreennpTit on the question of curtailment. Another unfavorable influence was the suspension of dividend payments on Chicago & North Western preferred and common stocks. Both the latter issues broke to the lowest levels on record following this development.
Large offerings of Anaconda. Kennecott and other leading copper shares were thrown on the market at the opening. Steel. American Can, Allied Chemical, American Telephone and other pivotal issues also were in supply, dipping to new lows on the current reaction. J. I. Case was under pressure on reports that financing plans were considered at the meeting during the morning at which the regular dividend on the preferred stock was authorized.
Copper Metal at New Ix>w
Selling activities in the principal stock* slackened around noon, and the market moved in listless fashion through the middle of the day. Some slight indications of a rally appeared during the early afternoon, but this improvement was wiped out by fresh pressure on the genera] list m the last hour following announcement that one smelter had reduced the domestic price of copper to 6^* cents This was the lowest level on record, comparing with the previous low of 7 cents. Further general selling came into the market in the late afternoon, and new lows on the movement were reached by active stocks throughout the list.
T'nion Pacific Extends Decline
Union Pacific broke through previous resistance levels for the major decline, dropping to the lowest price touched since 1903. One of the factors in the pressure on Union Pacific was the uncertainty affecting the present $4 dividend rate on New York Central, of which '’"Union Pacific owns 267.152 shares.
Union Pacific’s other holdings of railroad stocks include 62.670 share of Baltimore & Ohio common, and 18.060 preferred; 44,206 Chicago &: North Western common. IS 450 St. Paul preferred, 247.500 Illinois Central, and 69.750 preferred. Union Pacific also owns all of the stock in a securities company owning 101,200 Illinois Central. 2S 250 Wabash preferred, and 33.000 Wabash preferred A.
Income from all these rail holdings last year was 55.615.2S9. equivalent to 52.52 a share on Union Pacific stock, for which a 1930 balance of S15.63 a share was reported Thus far in 1931. dividends have been omitted on North Western common. Illinois Central common and the Wabash issues, and have been reduced by New York Central and Baltimore & Ohio.
Chicago A. North Western
Omission of both preferred and common dividends by the Chicago & North Western had been foreshadowed by the drastic decline in the road s railway operating income so far this year and by the unfavorable outlook for the remainder of 1931. In addition, the road probably will suffer a sharp falling off in other income this year fiom the 57,296.570 received in 1930	"
For the nine months ended with September, the North Western reported net railway operating income of 56.203.156 against 513,327.770 for the like 1930 period. For the full year, net railway operating income is unlikely to exceed $9,000,000. and non-opcratmg income probably will not better 55.450.000 Fixed charges for the year will be m the neighborhood of $16 -400,000, indicating that the North Western will fail to cam fixed charges by a fairly substantial margin.
While North Western’s current position is no* strong, it has authenticated a large number of bonds which it can pledge as security for temporary loa^s. In October, it was announced
that the road had borrowed $10,000,000 for one year from Kuhn. Loeb & Co. on a secured loan. At that time, Fred W. Sargent, president, stated that this should take care of the road’s requirements for substantially all of the next 12 months.
Steel Operations Steady
Iron Age reported the steel industry was holding its own at around 31<%. of capacity, without the aid of support from building construction and railroads, and with buying by the automotive industry less than had been expected. This situation lends hope to the view that the first quarter of 1932 may show rising operations, for some buying from the sources mentioned appears to be deferred at present, and may come to a head around January’. At that time the industry also should benefit by seasonal expansion of tin plate buying.
While reports from various steel centers are conflicting, and apparently not all of the mills have participated in the recent upturn, the trade is encouraged by the ability of the market to hold around here, and has hopes that the steel business will emerge from the December holiday lull with definite improvement in demand
Car leadings Improve
As was indicated from earlier report of individual carriers, car loadings for the country as a whole in the week ended November 7 made a better comparison with a year ago than registered for the preceding week, the decline from 1930 period being lP.6^r against 20 7'",-respectivclv. If. however, N. Y. Central's figures for the week of November 14 are to be used as a guide the improvement did not hold through the later week, this road having reported a decline m loadings of 20.1rr for the week of November 14 against 17.4rr the preceding week.
Commodity loadings for the week of November 7 show gram movement as ahead of 1930 and 1929 and this releasing of crops to market should augment the purchasing power in the West. Analysis of statistics reveals another encouraging factor not apparent in the aggregate loading figures, that is. miscellaneous freight in the week of November 7 was off only roundly 65,000 cars from 1930 compared with a decline of 86,000 cars m the preceding week, and merchandise less-than-carload traffic decreased only 24.000 cars, against 36,000. These two classifications appertain to general industrial activities and their improvement is noteworthy.
Changes In Trust Holdings
"A source of recent and prospective pressure on a group of leading stocks, and of support for another group has gone almost entirely without comment.” says G. M.-P. Murphy & Co. "Both of the two largest fixed trusts. North American and Corporate Trust Shares, have organized new trusts, having portfolios differing from the original trusts and are offering holders of the originals attractive terms for exchange into the new series. It is probable that the exchanges have been going on for a few weeks and will continue, as they arc said to be attractive from the standpoint of dealers and stockholders. As exchanges are made some stocks are being sold and others accumulated
■'North American has eliminated Western Union, Ingersoll F.and. United Fruit. Canadian Pacific. Illinois Central. Louisville and Nashville, Southern Pacific. Royal Dutch. Standard of California. Socony Vacuum and Texas Corp They have included* for the first time Procter & Gamble Union Carbide. Borden, Com Products. General Foods. Standard Brands, Drug, Sears. American Can. Harvester. Reynolds. General Motors. Columbia Gas. North American. Pacific Gas, Public Service and UGI. The original trust held equal number of shares of all issues, about 40.000 each. The new one holds varying amounts of each issue, and has 25r"r in utilities.
’’Corporate Trust eliminated Western Union Ingersoll Rand. United Fruit. Illinois Central. Louisville & Nashville. Southern Pacific. Standard of California and Socony Vacuum. They introduced Allied Chemical, American Can. American Smelting. Borden. Columbia Gas. Electric Bond & Share. North American. Procter Gamble, Union Carbide and UGI. Each unit of this trust still contains an equal number of all the stocks. The original had about 35.000 shares of each ”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.