Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 14, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
A. number of fa.vora.ble developments appealed in the overnight news. Particular importance was attached by Wall Street to the $26,000,000 decline of money in circulation, which indicated a return flow of hoarded funds under the influence of reviving confidence.
Federal Reserve statements for the first week of November also revealed an increase of $35,000,000 in the nation's gold stocks, pointing to reversal of the recent movement of the metal. Brokers' loans dropped an additional SIS.000.000 to a further new low, and the delayed departure of the Belgian representatives suggested better chances for successful outcome of the current conferences on curtailing world copper production.
However, the dominant influence in the day’s 1 dealings on the Stock Exchange was the prospect of nearby dividend adjustments in the railway field. New York Central, whose sharp break had unsettled the whole market in Thursday’s late trading, again was subjected to heavy pressure.
New York Central broke through its previous resistance levels for the 1929-31 major decline, reaching the lowest price on record for the present shares. Large offerings of Central were based on the expectation of a reduction in the present S4 dividend rate at the December 9 meeting, as well as on reports that the company contemplated additional" financing.
New Haven was another weak spot in the carrier group. Present indications are that the road will show earnings little above S3 a share for 1931 New Haven has already distributed $4 in dividends this year.
Wheat Declines Sharply
While New York Central extended its decline during the morning, stocks generally displayed a fairly steady tone Copper shares showed moderate strength on the favorable turn in the production conversations, with Anaconda, and Kennecott active at rising prices.
However, reactionary tendencies spread throughout the list during the afternoon when another selling wave swept over the carrier group In addition to the pronounced weakness in various rails, grain prices suffered an abrupt decline after rising above the previous finals during the middle of the day. With wheat breaking more than 2 cents a bushel selling of the principal stocks picked up momentum, and good-sized declines took place throughout the list during the last hour.
linger Term Sentiment 'Bullish
Interests optimistic on the longer term outlook for the market were not particularly concerned over the setback*- in the principal stot k^ from their recent highs. Extensive liquidation (if security loans by banks look advantage of the market's substantial recovery from last month s lows While this selling impeded further immediate progress on the upside by the principal stock** it mean’ the absorption of substantia! offerings that were, overhanging the market.
Persistent progress in eliminating impaired holdings is finding steady reflection m figure*- on collateral borrowings 1‘iobably nexer neiort m its history has the Stock Exchange b-’cn near to being on a cash hast*- This i*- a -tor of long-pull bullish significance tha* is difficult t<» overemphasize With th< sore spot*- in the speculntixe .structure now largely healed, the general list has become inc reasmgly immune to the disturbing influence of lorced selling in individual issues that h*ixe not completed the adjustment of their positions
With dividend uncertainties continuing to affect special shares, it was considered natural tn expect periods of irregularity from time to time. liowevo:. any further downward rec.sions of important dividends such as New Yoil: Central s that may be necessary will b*' an outcome of poor earnings this year. Meanwhde the turn for thrt better in commodities, and : lie general revival m public confidence is cau; mg the market to look ahead to better busmc'-s
Having failed to follow Inroupli on the upside after the Dow-Jew's industrial nvi rage
crossed 116, the market has been subjected to ; large offerings for the account of traders reduc- l ing fcheir long lines. This selling has created a ; temporary increase in the floating supply that i has heightened the irregularity incident to the ' pressure on individual stocks like New York 1 Central. Radio-Keith-Orpheum. and Radio Corp. ;
Until the recent selling has been digested. ■ the market is open to the possibility of further recessions. But the willingness of important 1 interests to make substantial commitments on i good-sized setbacks is counted upon to establish -a basis of support well above the early October | lows.	i
Circulation Becrcahes	j
This week's bank statement contains one I highly encouraging sign, namely that currency circulation declined by $26,000,000 or by slightly more than in the corresponding week of 1930 and 1929. While the total of circulation is still high, $5,517,000,000, there is good reason for believing that the condition of public fnght which led to the enormous withdrawals of currency from bank deposits during August. September and early October has come to an end.
The. gold export movement has also apparently been reversed, the nation’s monetary gold supply having increased $59,000 000 in the past two weeks. This reversal has already had an effect upon the money market, as indicated by the recent easing in bill rates and an easier undertone in the cal! money market. In fact, the money market is now decidedlv below the level of the New York Reserve Bank's rediscount rate
In the absence of demand for credit, there has been a steady liquidation of bank loans and investments, notwithstanding the fact that interest rates are considerably more lucrative than in the summer. Loans and investments of reporting member banks m New York City declined S70 000 000 last week, making the total decline in the past month S40S.000.000
There are. as yet. no indications that there has been a pick-up m demand from potential borrowers or any increased willingness on the part of banks to lend. If the banking picture has changed for the better it is chiefly evident in the increased confidence shown by the public, both here and abroad, as reflected in the decline m currency circulation and the reversal of the gold movement.
Inx luting in Cash
With many stocks selling below their not current asset value steady investment accumu lation has been taking advantage of bargains that may be acquired in the wax of assets and particularly current assets In this connection Clark. Childs & Co point out that a purchase of 50 shares each of duett Peabody. Lima Locomotive and Mack Trucks 3 00 shares each of Devoe A- Rex’nolds Montgomery Ward an:! Julius Kayser and 200 shares each of North American Aviation and Hupp Motors xvould cos: about S9.000. Working capital of these eight companies according to most recent balance sheets, after deduction of all other liabilities including senior srcuiitic*. is equal on the number of snn’cs purchased to approximately
In other word’- the in\c«to: is purchasing working capital consisting of cash, securities. re-rvvables and inventory at f»(» cents on the dollar For less than nnining he is acquiring an int»'**est m plants and business organizations vbach in normal times max be expected to produce good earnings.
Warner Brothers
Warner Brothers Picture* has bem s'.cg-gi-h recently following publication of the company s statement for the year to August 31 last. x\ hi ch set forth a deficit of $7 900 -0f»o However shares of the amusement division haxe been unsettled the last several sessions by the piessure on Radio-Keith Orphcum This factor probably had more to xvith the action of Wamcr B-othe**s tr.an the annual re-r>o*-t As a mat’er of fact the latter revealed important improvement m the xvorku.g capita! position, xvith film inventories doxxn SWOOP 000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.