Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 30, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard. E. Edmondson
sistance fractionally above the December 17 | decline of $397,000,000 in net demand deposits, low in the Dow-Jones industrial average in ~	— _______	--
Monday’s session, stocks enjoyed a brisk recovery yesterday. Undoubtedly, the most important factor in thia turn for the. better was a letup in tax selling, innuenced oy tne proposal or Democratic leaders in the House to repeal the capital-gains-and-losses provisions of the Revenue law. in order to prevent deductions from taxable incomes of losses sustained in stocks and bonds.
According to Washington advices, this will be one of the chief features of the new Revenue law to be framed by the Democrats for the consideration of Congress. As »such a revision would probably be made retroactive to 1931. the prospect o^its enactment served to curtail tax loss registrations, which had been prominent in recent liquidation in the security markets.
With selling of this kind reduced in volume, corporation bonds developed a firmer tone in face of continued heaviness in government obligations. Pressure on the Treasury issues reflected the fact that this week’s Treasury short term borrowing cost the government about 3\*% on a bank discount basis, which is about the most the Treasury has ever had to pay for short term accommodations. Late last summer Treasury bills were sold on a basis to yield less than of 1%.
increased the first However, from this
Allied Chemical Spurts
In the share list, the material relief from tax pressure was translated into a vigorous upturn from the low levels of the preceding session. Allied Chemical led the recovery in the principal industrial class, responding gratifyingly to maintenance of the existing $6 dividend rate.
Substantial rallies also took place in Steel, Am nr ir.wn pan, Consolidated Gas, American Telephone and other pivotal shares of the industrial and utility divisions. Railroad shares were strengthened by sizable gains in railway bonds.
Generally speaking, the day’s best levels in the principal stocks were reached during the early afternoon. Profit taking was attracted during the last hour by the extent of the earlier gains, and the session’s highs were shaded before the close. Call money was firm at the renewal rate of 3%, and there was some expectation that the high of 4%, seen at this season last year, would be duplicated. How* ever, sufficient offerings appeared to keep the initial charge unchanged.	,
Capital Gains Through Short Selling
In view of the recent agitation on part of various members of Congress against short selling, the Democratic proposal to repeal the capital-gains-and-losses provision of the revenue law has one amusing aspect. Presumably, such a revision would be made retroactive to 1931. If so. traders who have made large profits on the short side during the past year will be important beneficiaries.
It will mean that the government will derive no assistance from this source in its effort to balance the national budget. One authority has summed up the theory of taxation m saying that it represents the plucking “of tne greatest amount of feathers with the least amount of squawk.” Certainly, if the capital-gains-and-losses features of the revenue law is eliminated, the bears will have no occasion to growl.
Having displayed impressive last-ditch re-1 tions in loans and investments resulted in a -....................... '	*	~	*	— I decline of $397,000,000 in net demand deposits.
Government deposits fell off $203,000,000, reflecting the backwash from the December 15 financing.
Member banks in New York City their security loans by $23,000,000, gain in this item for many months, bankers were not inclined to conclude situation that liquidation of security loans by these banks had been concluded. Taking into consideration the reduction of $52,000,000 in “all other loans” on part of New York City banks, it was regarded as likely that the increase in security loans had represented a temporary shift from commercial loans in connection with year-end requirements.
Crude Oil Output Drops
Reflecting the shutdown of wells in Texas on Sunday a week ago. the crude oil production figures for the past week showed a reduction of 130,117 barrels in the daily average, according to estimates of the Oil and Gas Journal. Total domestic output was at the rate of 2,238.690 barrels daily, or 144,000 barrels above the average a year previous. This curtailment movement will do a great deal to stabilize the oil situation, removing that much pressure from the price structure. However, improvement in the refinery gasoline price in the midcontinent will have to take place to prevent a crude cut after the close of the year.
Report of Bawlc Committee Studied
With the international confelfence on reparations scheduled for next month. Wai! Street was busy studying the report presented by the committee of experts at Basle on the question of Germany's capacity to continue payments under the Young plan after the expiration of the year's moratorium next July. Observers in the financial community felt that the fortnight’s work of the Basle committee had produced some valuable, and interesting data,
“In a general way, the Basle report recognizes that Germany cannot keep on with conditional reparation payments when the year's moratorium runs out.” says Russell. Miller & Co. “In respect to unconditional payments, fi0% of which go to France, the question is not quite so clear. These unconditional paymmfat largely come out of German railways and at present German railways are not enough to pay the full amount of these unconditional payments which total about $157,000,000 yearly. It may require two or three years and a marked improvement in German industrial activity before these unconditional payments can be resumed in full.
“In effect the Basle committee finds that Germany cannot continue reparation payments after July next and virtually recommends a moratorium for a period of years on 75% of Germany's reparations and suggests an early intergovernmental conference to rescue the world from its growing economic paralysis. It is suggested in Basle that this conference may start as a meeting of prime ministers, that it may assemble at the Hague and get started around January IS.
“As one studies this report of the Basle committee which, by the way, the French delegate signed, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that this reparation and war debt question has been shoved to the front as a predominant issue. It is not unlikely that the Basle report is the most important finding placed before the world since the signing of the treaty of Versailles. Just how great will be its market influence is another story but until the question of Germany and its solvency as a going concern is settled it is hard to see how it can fail to be in the background as an overriding and controlling economic influence.”
Banks Reduce Earning* Assets
A sharp contraction m the earning assets of member banks of the Federal Reserve system was the outstanding feature of their condition statement as of December 23. Loans and in* vestments declined 3229.000,000 from the preceding week. In conjunction with a sharp seasonal rise of monev in circulation, this reduc-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.