Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 8, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Sy 'Richard E. Edmondson
Stocks turned reactionary yesterday after making a fairly vigorous response at the opening to overnight announcement of final agreement on the Hoover debt holiday program. Considerable profit-taking came into the market on the theory that publication of the good news would be followed by a reaction. However, offerings were outweighed by buying that hart awaited actual consummation of the moratorium plan, and good-sized advances occurred in active shares throughout the list in the early dealings.
But the initial bulges attracted realizing sales in growing volume, and declining tendencies spread throughout the list toward the end of the first hour. Pressure on the leaders was increased by bearishness in professional quarters. This attitude found reflection in substantial offerings for short account in various speculative favorites.
• • •
Selling activities picked up momentum toward noon, and extensive setbacks from their earlier highs took place in Steel, American pan, Union Carbide, Johns-Manville, and other pivotal industrials. J. I. Case, Westinghouse Electric, American Foreign Power, and other issues in which over-extended short interests had been squeezed last week, showed signs of impaired technical positions, and suffered bad breaks. - Leading rails also were In large supply, and various stocks of this class displayed thin markets. Sweeping declines occurred in New York Central, Atchison, Union Pacific, and Baltimore & Ohio, and the whole earner group	under
severe pressure.
Selling activities slackened during the early afternoon on advices that credit withdrawals from Germany were decreasing. However, only slight rallies were enjoyed by the chief trading vehicles, and prices again succumbed under another selling wave that swept over the market during the last hour. New lows on the current reaction were reached throughout the list, and the market was generally heavy In the late dealings.
• • •
No surprise was occasioned in experienced trading circles by the reactionary tendencies which developed on news of the debt agreement. This announcement had been well anticipated by the 35-point recovery in the principal industrials after the Hoover proposals were originally made public. Since no one bad seriously questioned ultimate French acquiescence, it was natural to expect that shrewd speculators would operate on the theory that the immediate effect of the good news would prove to have been discounted.
Hence, quiet liquidation and short selling yn. doubtedly took advantage of recent spurts in the market when enthusiasm over the moratorium program was running high. Offerings of this character increased in volume when active buying appeared at the opening for the account of people who had awaited actual publication of the final agreement to make purchases.
It was recognized by interests who took the opportunity to reduce their long holdings on rallies that the debt postponement pact had exercised a far-reaching and salutary influence in bringing about revulsion from the extremely depressed sentiment existing a month ago. However, it was felt that the process of promoting economic recovery throughout the world would be halting, and tedious Consequently, it was thought that opportunities would be presented as the summer progressed to reacquire at some concessions stocks sold out at a time when leading shares had staged a recovery of virtually 23 r<- from the June low*.	’
• • •
Aside from the feeling that the immediately beneficial effects of the Hoover plan had been measured marketwise by the substantial rally during the past month, the principal reason that actuated liquidation on recent strong spots was a desire to see how stocks would act on publication of earnings statements for the second quarter. However, the best opinion continues to be that the lows of the bear market have been seen, and that setbacks on poor reports and adverse dividend developments will nor endanger the resistance levels established on June 2.
Most authorities are looking for a period of dullness in the general market, rather than resumption of the mein downward movement. Financial sentiment throughout the world has been notably improved by the powerful measures
taken to assure Germany's political and economic salvation. Moreover, other measures are expected to follow that will assure an ample credit supply to debtor countries, and thus facilitate rehabilitation of international trade.
With nervousness over the foreign situation materially relieved, investment 'accumulation that was withheld during the critical weeks of April and May appears likely to become effective on price recessions over the next six weeks Many standard stocks sow offer attractive yields in comparison with the return'afforded by the open money market. Buying based on this factor alone seems likely to give representative shares increasing resistance to pressure until a better line can be obtained on autumn business prospects.
• • •
Heavy selling of J. I. Case was based on the belief that Danforth interests, who had been conducting bullish operations in the stock, had accomplished considerable liquidation during the recent activity in Case, above 90. While maintaining a bullish long-pull attitude toward the market, the Danforth group Vfas said to have reduced long lines in anticipation of an extensive reaction following final agreement on the debt pact.
• * *
The recent spell of hot weather has bad a favorable effect on the sales of Coca-Cola. For some time previously it is understood sales were a trifle behind the record level of last year. Margin of profit is reported to have been more favorable. reflecting the many economies effected jn operations as well as the low prices for the ingredients that go to make up Coca-Cola’s product. Interests familiar with the company’s affairs state present indications are that the company will show about $12 a share on its 1,000,000 shares of common stock for the current year, compared with $11.15 a share last year.
• • •
Last week’s $151,000,000 increase in loans made by reporting member banks m leading cities was the third recorded this year and the first since April 15. To be sure, the bulk of expansion was in New York City banks, but this was to be expected. It will probably be several weeks before convincing evidence will be available to show whether the increased credit being released by the Federal Reserve banks through purchases of government securities is being utilized by the country’ at large.
Perhaps the most encouraging feature of the loan increase was that S10S.000.000 of it was in “all other” loans, which are mostly of a commercial origin. These loans increased Jn every Reserve district except Richmond, Chicago. St Louis and San Francisco, and in these centers the reductions were small.
Although banks increased their loans last week, they did not add to their investments— in fact, they were substantial sellers of non-gov-ernment securities. Holdings of non-govemments declined $43,000,000 in the week ended July 1. making the total shrinkage m this item since April 29. $241,000,000. Banks, therefore, have not been supporters of the bond market recently.
“Purchase of 15,000 shares of Kroger Gro-i eery by Lehman Corp in the first six months of I this year, increasing holdings by about 27r <. has attracted considerable attention.” says E. 1 F Hutton & Co “With chain store legislation being enacted in an apparently unfavorable fashion by one state after another, many investmen* trusts have been selling or considering the sale of chain store stocks As Lehman Corp . among investment trusts, is probably best situated from the standpoint of keeping m touch with chain store organizations and evaluating future worth of chain store securities, these purchases of Kroger are unusually significant.
“Focsibly this trust’s attitude towards the stock was influenced by knowledge that Kroger has in excess of 16,600 stockholders, 3’^ or more per store. It seems pretty clear that dividing stores by stockholders there are as many or more individual owners of Kroger Grocery Stores as of the average ’corner grocery' with which they compete It seems doubtful if any permanently or seriously destructive legislation is possible where such a situation exists. Even from the political standpoint, the owners of chain store securities, if aroused, would probably represent a numerically stronger and more important voting force than individual retailers.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.