Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 1, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
'Ey Hichard H
Notwithstanding a severe slump, in sterling, stocks developed an improved tone at the start of the new week. Sterling 'broke to the lowest levels reached since Great Britain abandoned the gold standard, dropping 14% cents to $3.39%. Pressure on sterling was attributed to nervousness over the Central European credit situation, in which England is heavily interested, and to discontent on the Continent over the new British tariff schedules.
Although the depreciation in sterling lessened Great Britain’s purchasing power in the American grain and cotton markets, prices in these commodities worked generally higher, a development that reacted favorably on the share list. Probably the outstanding feature of dealings in the main body of stocks was an upturn in railroad Issues whose depressing behavior <l>as been an unsettling influence since early November.
In connection with the good-sized gains from their recent lows enjoyed by carrier shares, reports were in circulation that the Canadian Board of Arbitration had decided to order general wage reductions on Dominion lines. If those rumors prove well-founded, the action in Canada seems likely to have a powerful effect on the deliberations of the 1,500 general chairmen of the American railway labor unions when they meet in Chicago on December 7 and December 8 to consider the wage problem.
Hopes in this respect were translated into brisk demand for representative railroad stocks. After a heavy start, during which Atchison broke to a further new low since 1921. rallying tendencies spread throughout-the carrier department.
Industrials Show Resistance
Buying in anticipation of better market conditions was increased by indications of strong support that appeared in the principal industrials, which had closed Saturday at 90.02, compared with the extreme low for the major decline of 85.48 on October 5. Substantial short lines had been built up in the Industrial division toward the end of the last week on the theory that this section was headed for definite penetration of previous resistance levels.
When effective demand came into pivotal Industrials at critical levels, an active covering movement was started, and advancing ten den- i cies in Steel, American Can. Allied Chemical, nori other leaders of the group gradually picked un vigor. Momentum was Imparted to the upswing by the belief that chances were in favor of a turn for the better in the character of the news, with particular hopes pinned on developments regarding Germany’s short terra credits, and the contents of President Hoover's forthcoming message to Congress.
New York Central led the recovery in the railroad group, showing relief from Saturday's severe pressure on the stock, which was attributed to extensive liquidation of investment trust holdings. Accumulation was reported in General Electric for the account of interests close to the management, and the stock staged a good rally.
Individual Resistance Develops
Interests believing that the market has been working Itself into position for a sustained recovery were encouraged by recent indications of stubborn resistance in many sections of the list. •While the stocks in which leadership is vested have been engaged in extensive declines over the past fortnight, many individual issues and special groups have suffered comparatively little shrinkage, and have shown a marked willingness to turn upward whenever pressure was lifted from pivotal shares.
In view of this situation, many observers arc impressed by the contrast which the current action of the share list presents to the performance which wound up the spectacular pageant of rising prices in mid-summer, 1929. In the latter period, the stocks to which the market looks for trend determination were forging ahead in robust fashion, giving the impression of pronounced buoyancy in the whole list. As a matter of fact, considerably more than half the listed shares were already under the influence of declining business.
Technical conditions were steadily impaired by the sensational demonstrations tn pivotal slocks. When the bull swing finally culminated, these pyrotechnics heightened the ensuing collapse. accounting for the severity of the break in October-November, 1929.
At present, the drastic character of the further deflation in stocks like Steel, American
Edmondson
Can, New York Central, Atchison, etc., is operating to create an opposite situation. A widely scattered, and weak short interest has been built up. arousing the belief that a hurried covering movement would be seen on the appearance of constructive news. Meanwhile, steady accumulation has been proceeding in many departments that are thought to have completed their adjustment, and seem likely to benefit quickly from any turn for the better in general business.
Automobile Prospects Improved
In anticipation of the seasonal upturn in motor shares which usually precedes the National Automobile Show in January, scale buying in the stocks of this class has been particularly insistent. Indications now point to a substantial increase in automobile production in December from the depressed levels prevailing during the current month.
Various leading manufacturers are preparing to exhibit new models at the January show, featuring mechanical and style refinements that are counted upon to have a powerful public appeal. Accessory companies also will be favorably affected by the stepping up of motor operations. Bendix has been In special demand on the expectation, of early announcement of the adoption of its clutch control device by an outstanding maker of low-priced cars.
■Utility Shares in Favor
Owing to the impressive earnings record made by the utility induMry this year in face of depressed conditions in general business, utility stocks have been in particular favor for investment purposes. Considerable long-pull buying has converged on Brooklyn Union Gas, and Public Service of New Jersey, whose 1931 showings will compare well with their 1930 statements.
In connection with the buying of the utilities, a constructive Influence has been exercised by the virtual dissipation of fears that Congress might undertake adverse legislation with regard to this Industry during the coming session. Another stimulating factor has been the disappearance of nervousness regarding widespread rate cutting. ■
A precedent that is expected to weigh importantly in rate discussions -was set by the State Commission of Nebraska in declining to order lower utility rates on the ground that reductions at this time were unjustifiable since utility companies operating in Nebraska had not put higher rates into effect when wheat was selling SI a bushel above current levels. Utility companies have a strong argument against rale reductions in the fact that the average consumption of electricity in 20,000.000 American homes in July, 1931, was 22'-<-greater than in January, 1929. Yet the increase m the size of the monthly bill rendered was only 9C'r. Moreover, trade experts say. there is every reason to expect that the decrease in the average household rate will continue In proportion to the increase m average consumption.
Few 1932 Railway Bond Maturities
“As we see the situation, the financial position of the railroads is not so pressing as appears on the surface.*’ says Jackson Brothers, Boesel & Co. “Exclusive of equipment trusts, which are practically self-liquidating in annual maturities, there is less than $8,000,000, of funded debt of the 24 leading roads which comes due during 1932. As a group, the railroads are thus spared the necessity of refunding immediately in an unfavorable bond market. The largest maturity for 1932 is $3,000,000 New York Central bonds. Norfolk Sc Western has only $2,326,000 due in 1932 and Pennsylvania Railroad ’ only $1,260,000. Illinois Central, which has suffered very drastic deflation in the stock market, has only $241,000 maturing. St. Paul has only $318,000 maturing and Missouri Pacific has only $506,000 maturing.
“A much larger problem will arise during 1933, of course, when Baltimore & Ohio, Great Northern, and Missouri Pacific will have to meet maturing obligations totaling approximately 5145,000,000. It is true that current unfavorable earnings have occasioned acute shortage of working capital for a majority of the railroads and that this has resulted in sharp increases in floating debt. We fail to see why the banks cannot extend even greater credit as a temporary expediency. The loose talk regarding the imminence of wholesale receiverships persists. however, and investment buying is not apt to be attracted unless a government revolving fund is placed at the disposal of the roads in need.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.