STOCKS SOAR ON DEBT PROPOSALS: HOOVER PLAN FOR MORATORIUM STIMULATES ...
BY RICHARD E. EDMONDSON
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 29, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Stocks soar on
DEBT PROPOSALS
Hoover Plan for Moratorium
Stimulates Sharpest Advances
Since November, 1929
I The Week Reviewed I
BY ricttaw> E. Edmondson Week** Active Stock*
Sale*	Stocks		High	Dow	Last ChgB.	
466700	Am & For Fwr 38%		29%	33%-r	
465300	Anaconda ....	. 32%	24%	31%-r	st.
483000	Chrysler Corp	. 23%	19	22%-j-	S’*
673500	Gen Motors.. .	. 40%	36%	39% 4-	
387800	Int Nickel . . .	. 16%	13%	16% —	3*,
599600	Int Tel & Tel	. 35%	32 %	35% 4-	
716400	Radio Corp . .	: 22%	16%	21% —	St.
669400	United Corp. .	.	25%	23%	25% —	2
838200	U S Steel . . .	.104%	93%	104% 4-	lit.
523500	Westinghouse.	. 73%	58%	71% 4-	lit.
9% above month. In to 17%: in cocoa 19%.
only mod-increase in
Treading stocks enjoyed during: the past week the sharpest advances seen in 19 months. Not since the culmination of the October-November collapse of 1929 has such an abrupt upturn been witnessed as that set in motion by President Hoover’s plans for a year’s moratorium m war debts to alleviate the financial crisis in Germany.
By last Wednesday’s close, industrial stocks used in the Dow-Jones averages had recovered 30 points from the lows of June 2. representing the recapture of more than 40f.r of the entire ground lost on the three months’ decline from February 24. This quick reversal furnished colorful illustration of the tremendous psychological influence exerted by the debt recess proposals, and afforded a measure of the importance attached to them as steps toward world trade stabilization.
In addition to its sentimental effect, so strikingly portrayed by the uprush on the Stock Exchange, the proposed debt holiday found concrete expression in the development of a definitely firmer tone in the commodity markets. Silver, which had been adversely affected for two years by the unsettlement in. international financial conditions, rose to levels “	'
those prevailing at the start of this cotton, the price recovery amounted lead 13.3%; zme 10%; hides 7*/<, and While the price of copper showed crate improvement, the substantial demand for the red metal demonstrated how speedily the changed outlook for Germany had strengthened the position of the copper industry.
Throughout the depression of the last 22 months, no factor has been more disturbing than the persistent decline in commodity prices. Consequently, the prompt steadying influence which the Hoover plans had on the world markets gave impetus to the advance in stock values. If the debt delay program proves effective In starting a sustained advance in commodity prices, it will have provided the most constructive economic development since the days of Coolidge prosperity
St«*el Trnde Mixed
Actual happenings m the steel trade continued the unfavorable trend of recent weeks. Additional reduction of took place in operations, bringing the average level for the industry down to a level just above the low of last December, excepting the Christmas-New Year week. Sentimentally, however, the industry was helped by three factors, namely the proposed debt recess, *'the pending railroad freight rate increase, and the coal strike.
Effect of the moratorium plan on steel business will be largely psychological- But if higher freight rates are granted, they should stimulate an advance In steel prices to pass on the increased delivery costs to the consumer. The coal strike may prove to have the most immediate influence. With coal and coke prices firming, the whole structure of steel quotations might easily follow suit.
Finished steel prices have not changed their status from a week ago, but scrap quotations are lower. However, the two largest steel makers both purchased scrap last week, though at lower prices. When any scrap buying movement starts, it has been found in the past that large interests were at the bottom of it. Of consuming sources, structural and pipe line requirements were the most important, with demand from the automobile industry diminishing, and little business coming from the railroads.
Foreign Exchange Dull
Despite the stirring events of the past week, there was little net change in foreign exchanges. Movements were on the most part restricted, due to the approach of the year end and the fact that bankers were waiting to see just what effect the debt program would have on the flow of international funds.
Sterling cables, which closed the week at $4.36 9-16, were under the influence of general belief that the Bank of England is preparing to cut its discount rate sometime early in July. While this would have an unfavorable effect upon sterling, nevertheless, traders are generally optimistic over its future. It Is believed that the Federal Reserve’s buying of government securities, which was indicated in this week’s statement, will push money rates down here and furnish a stimulus to the foreign exchanges.
Marks have been under close supervision during the whole week. While the spot rate has shown little change, a tetter tone prevails in the future market. - The granting of a $100,000,-OOO short-term credit to thp Reichsbank by the Federal Reserve, Bank of England, Bank for International Settlements and Bank -of France, to maintain the Reichsbank’* reserve ratio over the end of the half year when circulation demands will be heavy, has stimulated confidence.
One of the most significant developments has been the decline .in Swiss francs'^ to around $.1936, indicating a return flow of capital to Germany. A considerable portion of the funds withdrawn from Germany during the crisis cither went into or passed through Switzerland, lending unusual strength to the exchange. Decline now in Swiss francs is, therefore, considered significant.
Canadian exchange was weak, closing at discount of of 1%, after having been as low as	Gold is flowing steadily from Montreal
to New York in response to the exchange position tout Canadian dollars thus far have failed to show an ability to recover. Deading bankers are not optimistic regarding the near future of this exchange.
Cotton Advances $6 * Bale
A world-wide, and almost continuous buying movement in cotton futures advanced the market for gams of more than $6 a bale above the previous week's final quotations, or more than $1O a bale above the season’s low prices, made on June 8. The buying movement started on Saturday. June 20, on the announcement of Washington’s proposal to postpone payments pn tnter-govcrnsxieiit debts. An advance of $3.50
a bale the following Monday was the sharpest in more than two years.
While the cotton market was helped by highly optimistic reports from Worth Street, where the week’s business in gray goods reached record proportions, the upward movement in cotton was impressive because it occurred in the face of influences that under ordinary circumstances might depress the market.
. During the first half of the week the market was subjected to heavy liquidation of the July position in preparation for first notice day on Thursday. This was absorbed, however, by spot firms and the trade without any noticeable check to the rising market. .‘Weather conditions continued on the whole favorable for the growing crop. A trade report by the New York Cotton Exchange Sendee contained some depressing statistics.
World consumption of Americp.n cotton, according to the service, amounted to 943,000 bales m May. against 995,000 in April and 1,026.000 in May a year ago; consumption in the ten months ended May 31, 9,285,000 bales, against 11,261,000 in the like period of last season. Probable consumption for the full season wan put at 11.100,000 bales, against 13,021,000 last season.
Wheat Keacta from Highs
An upturn of two,cents a bushel in Chicago wheat on the first day of the week, which brought the market to a level four or five cents above the season’s lows, was partially Jost in later trading, when a downward trend prevailed. interspersed by feeble rallies. Bullish enthusiasm was created at first by announcement of the plan tn postpone war debt payments, but neither this nor an upward movement in the stock market was sufficient to reverse the reactionary trend in subsequent days of the week. The market was subjected to increasingly heavy hedge pressure as a result of rapid movement of the new crop of winter wheat
Some good showers were receded in th* Canadian Northwest, and crop prospects improved m Alberta. The Dominion Bureau of Statistics advised that crop prospects in Manitoba and Saskatchewan suffered a further setback owing to unfavorable weather, and that intense heat and damaging winds completely dimmed the hope of an average crop.
Washington in its weekly weather report advised that m the American spring wheat belt conditions were greatly improved by beneficial rams from North Dakota eastward, including parts of South Dakota.
From time to time the report was circulated in the grain trade that an announcement was impending cermng its holdings, ever, and
Grain Stabilization Corp., stated that neither he nor Chairman Stone of the Federal Farm Board planned to have any new statement regarding the disposal of this wheat.
As is often the case, com prices responded more readily than wheat to the trend m the stock market. The corn market displayed strength independent of the major cereal, 1 especially toward the close of the week, when a sharp advance took place m sympathy with higher prices for stocks, which were taken as a forecast for improved industrial consumption of corn.
The market was helped by higher prices for hogs to render feeding operations more profitable, and by hot weather over the western corn belt. Crop complaints came from the western and central sections that rains were needed.
Federal Resen r Buys Governments
The boom which hit security prices after Hoover’s announcement of his proposed moratorium failed to affect the money market in any appreciable degree. Time money underwent a sentimental rise of % of 1%, but no more business was transacted than in the recent past. Call money remained >pegged at 1%%. while bills and commercial paper were little affected beyond a slight but uneven pick-up m activity.
At the end of the week it was revealed in the Federal Reserve statements that the system had purchased $20,000,000 government securities during the week. This action was hailed as of deep significance, indicating a change in the policy of the central institution which has not purchased any governments, except for year-end accommodation, since the middle of ,	1930. It is believed the authorities now feel
confidence has been so restored by the week’s ; international developments that they can enter a campaign of credit expansion with assurance ' that the money will be used for loans and in-• vestments rather than be nullified in excessive reserves and reduction of borrowings. ’
Such an extension of credit has been urged by bankers and economists for a long time as the most effective way of preventing further commodity price declines. Rather than cheaper credit, more credit has been held up as the requisite to stable prices. But until confidence was restored, the authorities apparently believed such a course of action would be futile. There is reason for thinking, therefore, that the system will purchase governments in considerable volume now that economic winds seem blowing favorably.
As a result of this purchase of goverments and an increase in discounts. Federal Reserve credit outstanding advanced to $960,000,000, up $53,000,000 during the week and ahead of the corresponding week last year for the first time in a number of months. Currency circulation declined $23,000,000, another factor which was regarded with satisfaction as indicating the termination of misconfidence in the banking situation following difficulties in the Mid West. Gold stocks of the country advanced to $4,915,000,000, up $22,000,000 during the week, while more than $85,000,000 has since been, added, bringing the figure only $50,000,000 away from $5,000,000,000.
from the Federal Farm Board con-plan to dispose of stabilization wheat No announcement was made, how-George S. Milnor, president of the

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.