Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 23, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Ry Richard E. Edmondson
'World-wide enthusiasm was aroused over Sunday by President Hoover’s proposal of a year’s moratorium in war debts. This plan was universally regarded as the most constructive economic development in two years, and was counted upon to exercise a tremendous influence in stabilizing international conditions.
Aggressve' demonstrations of strength took place on the London and Berlin Stock Exchanges. Foreign commodity markets also were buoyant, and cotton gained $3 a bale at the opening here. Wheat and corn prices likewise advanced sharply.
On the New York Stock Exchange, the principal shares extended Saturday’s gains in sensational style on a huge volume of transactions. Large ' blocks of stock were turned over in the early dealings at sweeping gains from the previous close, and the whole market pushed vigorously upward.
Violent trading in the first half hour, the turnover was swollen to 1,000,000 shares, caused active selling to come into the market, on the theory that the upswing was setting an excessively rapid pace. Many traders who had acquired long lines around the recent lows indulged in profit-taking. At the same time, pressure was renewed by bearish professionals, skeptical of the market's ability to hold its spectacular upturn.
However, offerings were absorbed in impressive style, and the main advance was resumed following moderate setbacks m the leading stocks from their initial highs. Around 11 o’clock, pivotal issues pushed ahead to new highs on the movement, and advancing tendencies again spread throughout the list.
Bearish professionals hoping for covering opportunities on setbacks received no encouragement as the session wore on. Brief periods of comparative steadiness were followed by fresh waves of buying, and progressively higher levels were attained by active stocks throughout the list.
TJ. S. Steel furnished strong leadership in the principal industrial class, scoring a gain of mo*e than G points on top of its 6-point uprush in Saturday’s session. Rails also enjoyed additional gains of a robust character with New York Central, Union Pacific and Atchison showing the greatest advancing power.
Vigorous bullish demonstrations took place in the copper stocks on the outlook for better foreign demand for the metal. Various other groups and individual stocks were notably buoyant, with specialties like J. I. Cose and Auburn Automobile soaring sensationally. On the whole, the gains in the general list from Friday’s close were the most violent seen since the sharp technical recoil of November, 1929 No change took place in the character of the market during the lost hour, and the day’s best levels were reached m the final dealings.
1919-21
Divergcnt views were expressed in the financial community as to whether the substantial recoveries from the June 2 lows had represented a definite reversal of trend, or merely a rally in a bear market such as was seen in the first three months of 1930, and again in the initial two months of 1931. Price movements thus far this year have closely approximated the pattern followed a decade ago when the ’ " “ post-war deflation was culminating
At that time, rails and industrials the DowJones averages broke to new June, but the absolute bottom of the movement was not established until August when the industrials extended their declines, while the rails received support above the June lows In view of this precedent, many observers have felt that the market some tiinc this summer would probably break to an approximation of the lows reached early tins month, with individual stocks dipping to new lows for the bear market.
used in lows in
On the other hand, there are many adherents to the hypothesis that the sudden turn for the better in the international situation has sounded the death knell of the bear market. Ten years
ago. tlie final lows were achieved at the end of three months of defining- prices. Similarly, the lows of Jupp 2 thia year were attained following an additional downward movement of three months’ duration, since the 1931 decline started on February 24. Moreover, the decline this year from the February high was much more drastic than the corresponding movement of 1921, and brought prices down to levels which, on a percentage basis, made the 1929-31 bear market by far the most sweeping on record.
Whether or not prices later return to an approximation of the June lows for a test of the character of the support at those levels, the Dow theory of averages has definitely foreshadowed an upward movement of indeterminate proportions at this time. Saturday’s extensive advances in the principal industrials carried the compilation for this class of stocks to a new high on the movement at 138.96. T^iis figure compared with the previous recovery peak of 137.03 where the Initial rally from the lows of June 2 encountered resistance on June 13.
This ability to extend the upswing gave confirmation to a similar movement on part of ti^e rails. Latter reached a new high on the movement at 79.65 on June 13, thereby exceeding the previous resistance point of 76.17 on June 5. With the averages for both great divisions of the market pushing simultaneously into new high ground at the start of the new week, it was evident that selling which had previously held back the upward swing had been absorbed. This ability to -overcome recent resistance levels suggested that the market was headed for higher prices, temporarily at least. This outlook is counted upon to bring excellent support into standard stocks on recessions for the account of interests who had been awaiting a signal of this sort.
Another factor that seems likely to bring support into representative shares on setbacks is the changed psychology created by recent developments, particularly in the foreign situation. Considering the dynamic recoil staged by the market since last Friday’s close, at is obvious that the rampant pessimism recently existing in speculative quarters had created a drastically oversold position in the general list. Only a small spark in the way of constructive *	the flare-up
started. Ir-internationul of hopeless-
news was needed to touch off which the Hoover announcement respective of the outcome of the debt proposals, the recent spirit ness has been dissipated, and it would require some profoundly depressing developments to cause a resurrence of the gloom prevailing several weeks ago.	_ ...
domestic purposes was hour, a decline of 14% since 1913.
the cost of electricity increased fuel economy
Electric light and power companies are now supplying electricity to domestic consumers at the lowest average rate in the history of the industry, according to Dominick & Dominick In the year ended April 31, 1931. the average cost of current for oil ' 5.93 cents per kilowatt since 1926 and of 31%
Steady reduction in has been due chiefly to	_
of central generating stations, the rapid gain in the number of consumers and the use of greater amounts of current by individual consumers resulting from the increased used and variety of electric appliances.
Since 1922 the number of customers served by the electric utilities has nearly doubled, the number served at the end of 1930 totaling 24.701.972 as compared with 12 710.000 eight years previously The utility companies are at present actively extending their services to rural communities, although scarcity of population in some regions imposes difficult ..economic problems. More than 90.000 farms were electrified last year, the largest number in any single year of the industry*?' history.
While expansion m the next decade may not procedd as rapidly as in the recent past, there is every indication that stability of revenue will be consistently maintained and that production and distrbution of electric current will continue to gain appreciably from year to vear.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.