Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 19, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson.
Wall Street "breathed a sigh of relief yesterday as sweeping recoveries took place in the security and commodity markets. After the recent unrelenting pressure on boxfZT and stock prices, the development of a spirited rally caused speedy revulsion from the discouragement existing in the financial community over the past fortnight. Sentiment regarding the economic outlook experienced a pronounced turn for the better.
Probably the most powerful influence in promoting rallying tendencies in the main body of stocks was the cessation of forced liquidation in bank shares, and in the bond market. Indications of an impending reversal were given in Thursday's late dealings in bank shares dealt in over the counter. Latter enjoyed good-sized upturns after the close of business on the Stock Exchange.
Further strength appeared in bank shares in yesterday’s early dealings. This factor checked a fresh selling movement on the Stock Exchange that carried Steel. General Electric. Texas Corp., and other representative issues to new lows for the major decline.	t
When bank stocks resumed their rally in J impressive fashion, the further outpouring of' various listed issues was stopped, and prices turned upward on a broad front. American Telephone quickly made up the dividend of S2.25 a share, which was deducted at the opening. Steel staged a sharp rebound from its 1 earlier low. and abrupt upswings occurred in Allied Chemical. American Can. Consolidated ‘ Gas, and other pivotal shares.	‘
Call Money Firmer
Impetus was imparted to the recovery on the ; Stock Exchange by good-sized gains in gram ( prices, and by definite improvement m the bond , market. Railway obligations, which had re- ( cently been under severe pressure, 'developed , special buoyancy. This factor had a helpful , effect on railroad stocks, and sweeping gains j from their recent lows were enjoyed by New , York Central. Atchison. Union Pacific and other ' leaders of this department.	I
Increasing confidence was created by the growing strength of security markets generally. and the trading volume picked up sub- ( stantially. Transactions expanded to such larg? proportions that the ticker at times lagged behind the market, and the days turnover reached the highest total since October 6.	%
Some hesitation was shown around 2 o’clock after call money had firmed up to 3rr. from the renewal charge of 2This stiffening reflected withdrawals aggregating $25,000,000 largely due to requisitions on the Treasvry overdraft incident to the government’s nud-month operations. However, brisk demand reappeared for the principal stocks during the lost hour, and the best level of the session were reached in the late afternoon.
Stocks Recoil From Excessive Pessimism
Although the difficulty of picking the exact moment when ycar-end liquidation would be completed was obvious, it had been increasingly evident for the last few days that stocks were working into a position from which a sharp technical recoil was inevitable. Widespread reports were circulated of serious situations that were overhanging the market. These rumors are , familiar characteristics of a selling movement } that is approaching its climax. Their patent absurdity suggested that pessimism was being drastically overdone, and that an early and abrupt reversal of the trend was imminent.
With many people sacrificing their holdings out of blind fright, the position of interests who were forced to seek greater liquidity was made worse, and quotations were depressed to extremes that bore no relation to intrinsic values This situation attracted extensive buying of a clear thinking, and far-sighted nature.
Accumulation of this kind was particularly noticeable in railway bonds, which were selling at levels that pointed to wholesale receiverships in the transportation field. Realizing that this indication was entirely contrary to fact, and that the machinery for restoring railway credit had already been set in motion, banking interests and large scale investors absorbed large blocks of these obligations. It was support of this character that finally stemmed the tide of selling, and prepared the way for an upturn in railway bonds that helped to stimulate the recovery in security markets generally.
Growing Confidence in Dollar This week’s bank statements, notwithstanding the large turnover of funds connected with tax payments and government financing which distort the figures, show
unmistakable evidence of growing confidence in the dollar and in the banking structure. Considering the recrudescence of bank failures and heavy deposit withdrawals'in connection with recent Boston bank suspensions, the currency circulation figures are distinctly reassuring.
Increase In circulation was only $71,000,-0O0, or approximately the usual seasonal amount as compared with 1929 and earlier years, and far below last year’s corresponding week, which included the Bank of United States failure. Circulation has not increased during recent weeks as much as usual for this time of year.
Hysterical talk of America’s early abandonment of the gold standard is belied by the investment operations of foreign central banks in this market. Last week they' increased their holdings of bankers* acceptances by' $46,000,000. making the total increase since October 14 $174,000,000. It is certain foreign central banks are not investing 'in American acceptances out of charity', and the recent increase in holdings shows that they believe not only that the dollar Is sound, but that American bills are as ‘’good as gold.*’ Also, the return flow of gold to this country shows that foreigners no longer fear for the safety' of their deposits in this country'.
The other bank figures were sharply* influenced by the quarterly Treasury* operations. ^few’ York banks’ holdings of government securities increased by $179,000.000. their government deposits by $263,000,-OOO. Demand deposits also increased, reflecting balances built up in anticipation of Income tax payments, checks for which had not been cleared as of the date of the bank statement. There was also a sharp increase in the volume of Federal Reserve credit outstanding, due chiefly' to the S19S.OOO.OOO overdraft issued in connection with the Treasury’s refunding operations.
Factor of Selling Against Box
Inability of the New York Stock Exchange definitely* to segregate ‘'selling against the box” from straight short selling indicates that the recent compilation by Exchange authorities, if anything, has overexaggerated the short interest.
Selling against the box—sales of owned securities, in which the certificate is temporarily retained by the seller—is. in effect, liquidation.
The Stock Exchange, m its notice to members requesting data on the short sales, specifically- eliminated this type of selling where known. However, numerous saJes of this character could be made by clients without the broker being able to discern the difference, thus swelling the total of apparent short sales which represented m truth temporary liquidation.
Air Reduction
Air Reduction has been under accumulation on recent dips below 50. at which level it affords a return of 6% on its regular $3 dividend. This yield doc* not take into consideration the extra payment of $1.50 a share distributed in 1931. and the two years preceding. Present indications are that regular dividend requirements will be covered this year, with a balance of slightly-over $1 to spare.
In view of this record in an adverse year, interests sponsoring the stock feel that the $3 dividend rate is well within the company’s earnings capacity, particularly as Air Reduction has no capital obligations ahead of its 841.000 shares of stark. Management’s ability to reduce overhead was reflected in the fact that operating expenses in the first nine months this year consumed only 63% of gross, against 69% in the corresponding 1930 period.
Dutch Change Attitude on Rubber
“A practical example of the effect of depreciation in sterling on the British foreign trade position is apparent in rubber.” says G. M.-F. Murphy & Co. “England and Holland both control important rubber producing centers, but while exchanges of both countries were at par. Dutch growers appeared to have a competitive margin and Dutch participation in restriction schemes could be obtained only on too onerous terms. With the decline in sterling, however. grow*ers in British territory have an apparent advantage, though their receipts are in a depreciated currency.
‘’Consequently, it is said the Dutch are now agitating for restriction and the British are allowing the Dutch to do the asking. The British arc not expected tn consider anything but a straight 50% reduction in production.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.