Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 31, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
Official advices that New York Central was discussing voluntary wage reductions with its employes supplied the stimulus for brisk advances in main body of stocks yesterday. This news made a particularly favorable impression, since it was figured that the Central management would not have made such an announcement unless the wage negotiations were well advanced.
-•vew nigns on the current recovery were reached by New York Central, Atchison, Union Pacific. Baltimore & Ohio, and Pennsylvania, and the whole carrier group displayed a strong tone. Advancing tendencies spread to pivotal industrials and utilities, and the market moved upward on a broad front during the afternoon.
( In addition to the cheremg effect of the , railway developments, the market was strength- , ened by a number of favorable factors in the ' inKs* j business and financial news. Particular assur- 1	’ -	-	__
ance was imparted by the decline of $24,000,000 | combrussion house liquidation, and its nerform-in circulation during the past week revealed by j ancc has handicapped bullish operations in the the Federal Reserve statements. This evidence	1 ’*'*"-1*"* T-	..
of a check to the withdrawal of funds into nonproductive channels was regarded as significant testimony to the gradual restoration of public confidence.
Steel Leaders Optimistic
Moreover, optimism regarding the industrial outlook was materially heightened by the constructive indications described by two outstanding leaders of the steel industry. President Farrell, of U. S. Steel Corp., declared the corporation was increasing employment, and that it had resumed operations at one idle plant last week, and would reopen another next Monday.
President Grace, of Bethlehem, asserted that sentiment In the steel industry was unquestionably improved. He also reported indications of better activity on part of the buying public.
In addition to having definite impulse from the general news, advancing tendencies in stocks ' were assisted by a further demonstration of strength in the wheat market. Wheat prices i staged another robust advance Into new high ! territory for the season, strengthening the bc-I hef in the grain trade that wheat values were 1 headed for materially higher levels. While stock 1 market observers felt that other factors might 1 temporarily outweigh the turn for the better in i various basic commodities, confidence was on' tertamed that this development ultimately would I prove a dominating influence with regard to price I movements in the share list.
i	Railway Wage Negotiation**
( In officially confirming reports that the company was conducting negotiations with varv>us ! (.lasses of employes looking toward voluntary Avage reductions. Now Yoik Central supplied the most tangible constructive news rail shares 'have enjoyed in many months. a 10', wage cut for a period of one year, such as the Central management has under discussion, would he a step of immediate importance in strengthening the credit position of the railroads
Some transportation authorities estimate that the benefits of such a measure would be greater than if the Interstate Commerce Commission had granted the 15'. rate increase the Jailroads applied for. Moreover, it would not have the objections in the way of restraining trade revival that substantially higher freight tariffs had Consequently the favorable reaction of the railway shares to the wage news was readily understandable
Reducing the Wheat Surplus
■Definite moves toward reducing the world’s wheat surplus are being made during the current crop year, undoubtedly accounting in a large part for the marked improvement in wheat prices recently. The International Institute of Agriculture at Rome places world s output 110.000.000 bushels below
year’s production, while the consumptive needs owing to increased European and Chinese demand. will be 880.000.000 bushels, or 70.000.000 larger than last season. These two factors will combine 000.000 bushclr.
the last
to reduce bushels.
Nearby
Ability ol th<
Trend Important
.	Dov-Jcnes. muurtnnl average
to close abcnc 100 on Wednesday and Thursday, after dipping below that level in both sessions, is regarded as important by interests feeling that the reaction from the high of October 24 has represented technical retracement of part of the ground gained on the recovery from the early’ October low. On the rallv sc? m mntmr*
' by the Hoover economic program, the principal industrials advanced from S6.48 on October 5 to 109.70 on October 24.
Loss of 50rr of this upswing would carry the industrial compilation to around 9S.20. It was considered at least negatively favorable that ! pivotal industrials thus far have met support 1 above that figure despite the relative heaviness I of the rails. Latter class has yielded most of - its recovery since early October, dropping to ; 49.76 at last Wednesday's close. This com-• pared with the October 20 high of 5S.18. and i the October 5 low of 45.68.
1 Kails have been adversely affected by the 1 building up of large speculative lines of the I principal carrier shares in anticipation of an Interstate Commerce Commission rate ruling 1 that would prove immediately beneficial to cam'	Since the decision, was announced, the
rail group has been forced to absorb extensive
i general market. In addition to this factor, the share list has been confronted by renewed declines in bonds to new average lows for the year.
In view of these depressing influences. It is felt that resistance shown by the industrials has been particularly significant. However, many traders are withholding long commitments. pending further tests of the character of the support in the principal industrials around Thursday’s lows. It is recognized that a break below those prices would leave no definite resistance levels above the early October lows. However, such rapid progress has recently been made m worldwide economic readjustment that chances of recent support continuing effective are believed to be good, unless some unexpectedly disturbing development occurs in international affairs
Circulation Shows I>ecrea*»e
This week’s bank statements give tangible evidence that the circulation movement may have turned definitely. For the first time since July, figures of currency in circulation show a substantial decline, amounting to $24,000.000. For the preceding two weeks the pace of currency withdrawals had been slowing up and in certain districts there had even then been a return flow to banks
Of course, too much optimism nn the showing of one wook is not just’fird Nevertheless, there are sound reasons for believing that pub-lir confidence has been materially revived by the formation cf the National Credit Corp, and by the efficient manner m which a few delicate banking situations have been handled recently.
Last week's gold exports were the smallest since the movement started This slowing down of gold losses is important only because of its psychological eft eel The stability of our currency and Federal Reserve System was at no time threatened by gold withdrawals. cither actually or potentially. But the rnp.ditv of the drain alarmed many who were not familiar with the true situation.
jlit tdum flow of cuiremy and slowing down of gold exports, should have a favorable effect upon bank deposits and consequently should be a powerful factor in stopping the aeflation of bank credit, v hich has been so drastic in recent weeks In fact, there was a decided decline m the rate of credit deflation shown by the New York banks last week Total loans and investments declined only S2" 000 000. demand deposits plus time deposits declined only $12 000.000 Ne.v York banks used part of thc.r excels reserves to pay off borrowings from the Federal which are now $47 000 000 agamst $70 000.COO a week ago.
Union Pacific
AHhough T’mon Pacific may f>il sl.ghtly snort of earning S10 a common share in 1931 there is little apprehension regnrdini: pavmrnt of regular quarterly dividend acti n on which is scheduled for November 12 For the 12 months ended September it is estimated road earned $10 96 a share, after climmating approximately 80 cents a share less d.xidcnd income on its rail «tc»ck investments Should net from rail operations during the fast quarter show about the same decline as nonene cd for the September month, earnings for tins year would be around $9 25 a shate. These calculations make no allowance for possible greater return from its 50r, stock control of Pacific Fruit Express, which totaled over $j,-000.000 Ja.u tear.	’
temporary France arc another instance of the shift av.-r.v from international political Thinking. Mr. Loomis said, and in this instance are reinforced by France's -cccnt rise to a position of predominant power in Europe.
With these nationalist forces at work in other parts of the* world it is natural that similar tendencies arc now appearing m the United States and may have considerable influence on this country s attitude toward such problems as war debts and disarmament, he said.	'
More Scientific Attitude Toward Business
"While those influences arc comphcating world conditions, the growth of a more scientific attitude toward economic problems by business men is an indication of the probable direction of corrective measures taken in the future to pievent the reoccurrence of the present economic evils. Mr. Loomis believes It is his opinion, also, that thpso	will com*' p« a natural
readjustment of business to current conditions and to the need for improved economic stability rather than through governmental intervention.
America, as a virtually self-contained cco-nomic unit, with abundant natural resouiccs, an extensive agricultural economy, and highly developed industrial facilities, is nn ideal laboratory for the development of a new economic system along scientific lines, Mr. Loomis believes. The form that this now approach to business is likely to take will more probably be a combination of the good points of capitalism and socialism than the embodiment of the extremes features of either of these political theories, he declared.	1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.