Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 2, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard, E. Edmondson
With current conditions in “the steel industry pointing to a poor showing in U. S. Steel's report for the second quarter, large offerings again converged on Steel common. This outstanding industrial was poorly supported, and worked steadily lower into new low ground for the bear market.
Next to the disturbing influence of Steel common, the most unsettling feature of the market was the rapidity of the downward movement in the principal rails. New York Central-Atchison. Union Pacific, Baltimore & Ohio and other leaders of the carrier division suffered some of the worst breaks seen in the present phase of the bear swing. It was obvious that disgusted liquidation of investment holdings was pouring into the market in a steady stream, and that selling of this character was being absorbed only at good-sized recessions.
Petroleum shares also were under heavy pressure, with Standard of New Jersey leading the decline in this group. Hea\y selling of oil stocks followed the reductions in midcontinent crude prices posted by Stanolind Crude Oil Purchasing Co., a subsidiary of Standard Oil Co. of Indiana. These cuts have been threatened for some time by the steady decline in bulk gasoline prices. On the top grades, the reduction was 30 cents a barrel, bringing the midcontinent price schedule in line with the recent postings of the major companies in the east Texas district.
Trading picked up increasing breadth and volume as prices worked lower, and the selling assumed large proportions during the afternoon. One block of 25,000 shares of General Motors changed hands at 32, and the stock dipped to around its bear market low of 31^. Consolidated Gas led a general decline in the utility group, while Peoples Gas suffered a perpendicular decline. Auburn and other high-priced industrials with thin markets broke badly, and the
whole list was under severe pressure the last hour.	' •
through
reported interests
its $6
Fonts large
"By way of introducing a little variety into the long drawn out story of depressing news which has been patiently depicted day by day, it may be In order to pick out a few bright spots," says Russell, Miller & Co. "For example, sales of the two big mail order houses are making a relatively satisfactory showing. We happen to know that the Sears, Roebuck people are rather pleased with certain developments in the past three weeks. They arc among other things selling a very large number of tires and strange to relate there is a little profit in the business. One of the directors of New Maven is bold enough to express a strong opinion that this road will not only pay but will earn "	““
dividend in 1931.
"It is understood that some of the du have in the past few days bought a amount both of General Motors as well as their own stock. They feel General Motors is something of a bargain at 35, that a week or two of warm weather and lack of rein will cause sales to pick up and shake off the slump they have been showing. They expect a seasonal let-down but not anything worse.
"Generally speaking the corporations dealing in consumer goods are receiving little tokens from time to time that there is a large body of submerged buying demand in this country that will not stay submerged very much longer. It will perhaps wait out a dull summer but the fall is most likely to bring it out very strongly into the open. We notice that a number of New England textile mills are reopening and some of them on rather full schedules. There is not much money in the business but it is a step in the right direction."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.