Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 9, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
Stocks developed rallying tendencies yesterday, after absorbing further heavy selling in the morning trading. Extensive recessions in Saturday's abbreviated session brought an accumulation of selling orders over the week-end, and prices worked generally lower in the early dealings.
Offerings reflected discouraged liquidation of trading lines acquired in anticipation of a sustained rally, as well as fresh pressure from bearish professionals confident of their ability to force prices back to last week’s lows. Rails displayed a thin market, and sharp declines from the previous close took place in Atchison, New York Central, Union Pacific, and other leaders of this department.
recent improve-
the outcome of was allayed by conference. In
However, pressure was lifted from the rails toward noon, and th& whole list developed a better tone. Efforts by the bears to force lower prices were held in check by a more confident feeling regarding business prospects, which-appeared largely a result of the ment in the market itself.
Moreover, uneasiness over the German reparations crisis developments at the Chequers
addition, a better feeling regarding the banking situation at Chicago was created by the merger news from that center. With the factor of psychology more favorable to stock prices, attempt to start fresh liquidation made no headway after the tirst hour setbacks had run their course.
With selling drying up as prices worked lower, the bears found it necessary to bid for stocks, and good-sized recoveries from the earlier lows took place on short notice. Rails threw aside their earlier heaviness when New York Central staged a robust rally, regaining its morning loss, and rising above Saturday’s final level.
Steel, General Motors, du Font and other industrial leaders also resumed the rally, with American Can giving a particularly impressive account of itself. Latter made a brisk response to the statement of President Phelps that the management expected to make up 85. from last year’s	’
far in 1931
Standard of worthy activity high ground on Active demand for the stock was stimulated by the expectation of merger developments following the government’s favorable action regarding the Vacuum-Standard of New York consolidation.
decrease record sales volume shown thus
New Jersey developed noteat rising; prices, attaining- new the rally on a large turnover.
Since the rally attained considerable violence last Friday, professionals have shown renewed activity on the selling side. Persistent pressure was exerted against the leaders in Saturday’s session, and again when trading opened the new week. It was figured by the bears that the market would settle down to an approximation of last Tuesday’s lows following its initial recovery from the prolonged decline over the last three months. This was the pattern outlined last December. Confidence was expressed this precedent would be adhered to, even turned out that effective resistance levels been set up around last week’s lows.
Offerings based on this thought were
that if it had
successful in bringing about substantial recessions from Friday’s highs in the principal stocks. However, these setbacks were natural enough in view of the extensive upturn from Tuesday’s lows to Friday’s highs, amounting to nearly 20 points in the Dow-Jones industrial average.
That the general list should have a secondary reacton after such abrupt advances war clearly indicated on technical grounds. What the next step would be was dependent upon the character of the support that appeared on this
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
recession. Tn this respect, the recent action of pivotal shares has been reassuring to bullish sentiment.
Price concessions have brought to light a much greater willingness on part of investors to take advantagg of the attractive yield afforded by many well-fortified common dividends. These returns are notably enhanced by the meagre employment the open money market is now affording surplus funds. While stock prices were declining, the public was wary about making investment commitments. People with idle money were disposed to continue liquid rather than run the risk of buying stocks, and running into losses.
However, a change in sentiment has been observable since the market proved its ability to stage a convincing rally. This recovery has translated numerous potential investors into actual ones, giving representative stocks more ammunition to fight the bears than they have had for many months.
Early pressure on New York Central reflected nervousness over the outcome of 'Wednesday’s dividend meeting. With a reduction in the $6 rate generally expected, the stock was in considerable supply’. New York Central’s earnings in the 12 months ended April 30. last, indicated a balance of 35.22 a share. Wall Street has been looking for a cut in the dividend to 34 basis However, well-informed interests believe that the stock probably will be placed on a 35 basis at Wednesday’s meeting. leaving the question of a further reduction dependent upon earnings developments as the year progresses.
Pennsylvania also suffered a good-sized setback following publication of its statement for the first quarter. Net loss of $1,205,241, after taxes and charges, was reported, compared with a net profit of $11,449,666 in the first three months last year. Including Pennsylvania’s April figures, it is estimated by Dow. Jones & Co. that the road showed a balance of $3 65 a share in the 12 months to May 1. or only slightly below yearly dividend requirements of $•1 a share.
Assurance that the revised transit unification plan prepared by Samuel Vntcrmyer, special counsel for the city in rapid transit matters, contained no important revisions in the price to be paid for the properties to be taken over, stimulated interest in traction shares, which moved forward on increasing volume. The only revision of financial importance xs the plan to retire the $61,593,000 6rr Board of Transit Control debentures to be exchanged for the Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corp, equities in the Wil-liamsburgh Power Plant and the New York Rapid Transit Corp, in five years, instead of four.
Final action on a unification plan is unlikely for several months, but meantime there will be important developments which should have a bearing murketwise. The Transit Commission plans shortly to start hearings on a plan, using Mr. Untermycr's revised prosposol as a basis. After the Commission promulgates a final plan, directors and stockholders of the companies involved must approve its acceptance, and the Board of Estimate then must approve or reject it.
At present levels, the securities involved all arc selling considerably below the figures given for them in Mr. Untermyer’s revised plan. Under that plan. Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit preferred would be retired at pa*, through cash furnished by the sale of city corporate stock, each Interborough common stockholder would receive $50 in Board of Transit control 4’*^ bonds for each Interborough Rapid Transit common. and Manhattan modified guaarnteed holders would receive $60 in Board of Transit Control bonds for each Manhattan modified share.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.