Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 14, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Ry Richard E. Edmondson
Substantial recessions from, last week’s • big-b* took place m principal stocks yesterday. Renewed uncertainty over foreign conditions was created by developments in. tbe German and British political situations over tbe weekend and Columbus Day. and considerable selling appeared when tbe Stock Exchange reopened after the two-day suspension of trading.
Some offerings also were occasioned by disappointment over the delay in the Interstate Commerce Commission’s decision on the application of the railroads for higher freight rates Speculative buying last Friday and Saturday was induced by widespread reports that a favorable ruling would be issued over the week-end. While confident that the commission would adopt a constructive attitude, interests familiar with the situation had felt that the volume of data tn be considered would prevent such an early conclusion.
While the pace slackened after the ^initial accumulation of orders had been absorbed, no important ra^ying tendencies developed during the first hour* Price movement settled down into a narrow range, and dealings presented a decided contrast to last week’s excited trading.
Toward noon, further selling came into the market, and reactionary tendencies became more general. Although offerings were not particularly heavy, support was restrained by the disposition in bullish quarters to await a fresh incentive from the outside news. This Tendency accentuated the Influence of the selling, and prices worked steadily lower through the middle of the day and into the afternoon.
Cotton Advances Sharply
Commodity markets were fentured by an advance of more than $2 a bale in cotton This upturn was propelled by the plan to keep at least 7.000,000 bales of the staple off the market for a year, an arrangement perfected in a conference between leading southern bankers, members of the Federal Farm Board, and officials of the American Cotton Cooperative Association Grain prices also moved against the trend m stocks, wilth wheat up more than a cent a bushel at one stage of the day
Cail monev renewed at 2'.. the highest Initial charge since April 7. last This situation was In line with the general stiffening of moncx rates following last week's advance in the local rediscount figure. While stocks generally developed a steadier tone in the late afternoon price movements continued irregular, witn the volume of dealings relatively small.
Market Test Awaited
Trading was substantially redured in volume by the policy adopted by impnitant speculative interests to take to the side line** pending a test of the market’s behavior on a secondnrv reaction expected after lust week's violent recoven*. It was recalled that a period ot correction invariably followed the first sharp recovery from convulsive selling As the 22* . appreciation in the principal industrials Irani last Monday’s close to last Thursday’s c lose had been the most sweeping rally lor a. throe-session period in recent market history, it was considered logical to expect a time of technical readjustment before further progress on the upside was attempted.
Anticipation of irregular price movements in tho immediate future was also mau« ed bv various important developments scheduled for the latter part of October. Great Britain s gen-
eral elections are to be held on October 27. while V. S. Steel directors will meet for dividend action on the same date Moreover, important earnings statements for the third quarter will soon begin to make their appearance, and bullish interests felt it advisable to determine how the market would react to their publication.
Meanwhile, the National Credit Corp, is rapidly preparing for operation, and opportunity will be afforded to watch its effectiveness in clearing up difficult situations arising out of frozen loans. Since expanding circulation, has been an outstanding feature of recent banking statistics, any reduction in this item will afford some measure of the success of the administration’s efforts to promote business confidence.
Pool Reported In Wheat
Highly influential Chicago and New York interests have taken a definite stand on the bull side of wheat, according to reports current in La Salle Street. Materially higher prices are anticipated by members of the group.
It is understood that some of the largest of the Chicago operators as well as .some leading New York speculators arc included. In some quarters it is intimated that bankers are also interested in the effort to bring about a higher level of grain values.
The wheat trade takes the view that the market is in such a strong technical position as the result of the prevailing low prices, about the lowest in recorded history, that efforts to advance the market arc almost certain to meet with considerable surcess Nn estimates have been made so far as to the financial resources of the pool but they arc regarded as more than ample for the purpose in mind.
Banks Tt<*<iuce Ixians
Condition statement of the reporting member banks in leading cities had been foreshadowed bv last week’s Federal Reserve statement There were the expected largo declines in total loans and in vestments, notably in secunty loans, in demand and time deposits How soon the new Natumal Credit Corp, activities will begin to show up in banking statistics remains to be seen. Meanwhile all that can be said is that the recent statements of banking conditions are an accurate reflection of a situation that authorities are now actively working to improve.
Insurance
Quirt investment accumulation is reported in the shares of Continental Insurance and Fi-delity-Fhrnix Fire Insurance on a ba«is of the yield of approximately	afforded by these
issues nt current levels These companies have extensive security holdings including substantial amounts of railway bonds and bank shares Although it is recognized that the depreciation in market value of investments has been large mtc’ests taking a bull.fell attitude touiud these shares feel the ininortant point is that iiitiu. income from security holdings shoxx?* little change For this leason it is believed that the chances fax or maintenance of existing d vidend rates
Including uulv income from investments. Continental Insurance received an amount equal to S3 a share in 1030. and $3 20 in 1^29 compared xxith the present yearly d.vidend of 32 40 a shirr Income fioni investments xttlded a share to Fidelity-Phemx m 1930 and S3 63 in 1929. tn comparison with dividend pax -ments of S2 60 annuallv.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.