Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 26, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
Weakneas prevailed in the stock market yesterday. Liquidation was resumed at the opening: of business, with hardly a minor recovery during1 the entire session. Trading was small during the forenoon, but picked up somewhat later in the day. The recession, too, was somewhat more rapid than it had been earlier. Steel common was the leader on the decline and its action discouraged outside buying in other shares. A. factor viewed as significant was a new low average for utilities made during the session. Buying was more limited than at any time In the past. Outside demand was almost entirely lacking. Bulk of demand which developed represented covering of shorts at the more attractive levels. As In the past, the , lower prices caught stop-loss orders, which increased the supply during the late afternoon. The final tone was heavy to weak.
Sentiment is weighed with pessimism again. Conservative observers allege that the market's action indicates that the generally cautious attitude was more than Justified. These Interests are urging clients to remain on the side lines, and favor the unloading of long holdings whenever the market scores a recovery.
Commission Houses Sold on Balance
Outside buying was at a minimum. As stop orders were reached on the reactions, the leading commission houses were sellers on balance. Professionals and floor traders sold stocks at intervals during the forenoon, but were covering shorts later In the day, and bought on balance.
Stocks Yield More Than Bonds
When the market was stag.ng its phenomenal advance in 1929 some conservative observers warned that caution should be exercised because of the fact that bonds were giving a much better yield that shares. The advice was ignored, as we all know. Now these same interests maintain that conditions must ’ be nearer normal for. currently, stocks are giv- ' mg a much better yield than bonds. As in 1929 the viewpoint of these counsellors hns failed to attract attention and. thus far, has failed to entice buyers into stocks.
Short Interest Still Large
A large short interest still holds sway In the market. Although some of the big operators and a number of outsiders are credited with having covered in recent sessions, action of the market has not induced a heavy demand from traders who have maintained a bearish position for nearly two years. Technical rallies have not frightened these operators into taking In their commitments. Doubtless some uncx-pected favorable development would be needed to force them to cover.	i
Improved Attitude Toward Rails
Rails have shown commendable stability In several of the recent sessions. Many of these stocks are believed to have been oversold and. as a result, a few market interests are more favorably inclined toward the group than in a long time. It is pointed out that prospects for rail developments in the future are of a constructive nature. Particular emphasis is being placed on the agitation for increased rates.
Authorities on railroads maintain that an advance in rates should not be expected to come immediately, by any means. Hearings must take place before the Interstate Commerce Commission and, as is to be expected, shippers wifi oppose an upward revision Much is heard, however, of a change in the attitude of the governmental authorities toward the carriers and this mutation coupled with the recommendations for maintaining wages, should be of advantage to the carriers in the rate situation.
Steel Earning* in
The Future
Since the remarks of President Farrell of the V. S Steel Corp, late last week. Wall Street has been actively discussing the competitive conditions in the steel industry and the effect on earnings. Many of those who anticipated substantial improvement in revenues for steel companies during the last half of the year are now* of the opinion th«t the earnings will be slow m recovering and will lag behind steel activity due to the low margin of profit being obtained.
East Texas Oil
Curtailment
The financial district is showing more than a little interest in the announcement that Stanohnd Oil & Gas Co. has withdrawn as a purchaser of outside crude oil in the East Texas district,- It is asserted that this action will aid in bringing East Texas production down to reasonable limits. The East Texas field has been a major contributor toward the chaotic conditions still ruling in the oil industry.
Woolworth Again in Favor
Woolworth was one of the strongest issues in the entire list up to a week ago when the advance was interrupted by Supreme Court decision upholding the Indiana chain store tax. The supply which followed this decision cams from outsiders impressed by the action of the
stock previously and who had bought at lower prices. A rush of profit-taking was natural in view of the previous sharp upturn.
Woolworth has returned to favor. In the past few sessions traders who had been active during the last advance started to accumulate on a rather large scale. Much of the optimism is based on the probable terms of the offering of Woolworth, Ltd., of England stock, which is looked for within a month by many interests close to the company. Traders contend that most Americans do not realize the magnitude of the foreign enterprise and its possibilities of profit. Speculative buying in the stock has been impressive and at times persistent. It is not improbable that the stock again will become one of the favorites with the outsiders who are still taking an interest on the long side.
Refrigerator Business of Consolidated Go*
Consolidated Gas is doing a good business in refrigerators. During the first four months of this year 141 carloads of automatic gas refrigerators were delivered and Installed in the territory served by the company and its affiliates This represents a total of 8,502 individual machines. an increase fo 172% over the number installed in the 1930 period, when only 52 carloads were delivered. From January 1 to April 20, Consolidated received orders for 10.523 refrigerators.
Long Pul! Buying In	'
Montgomery Ward
Recently some long pull buying has developed in Montgomery Ward because of the belief that company prospects over the long term are somewhat more favorable than in the past. While buying from the agricultural districts is dormant at the moment, it is argued that with • a good crop later in the year the rural sections should Increase their purchases. ‘Montgomery I Ward, of course, will get its share of this business.
Brooklyn-Manhattan
Acting Well
Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit has been one of the good actors during the past few days. Previously the issue had encountered support on all ( recessions and purchasers at lower levels have j been disinclined to accept profits during the i later upturns. The important position of the j system in any traction settlement is recognized in Wall Street and this has been responsible in part for the demand.	i
Allied Chemical	I
Earnings	;
Wall Street is actively	discussing the	earnings »
of Allied Chemical. Because	of	the	statement !
that earnings results for the first four months were just large enough to cover dividend needs there are some who predict that the revenues for the full year will fall below the regular $6 dividend. The point is made that the first quarter presumably will be the best three-month period of the entire year and thAt unless the ! chemical price situation improves the results later on will be less satisfactory.
How They Stand
Earnings reports as compared with these for the corresponding periods last year, and dividend announcement* as compared with the previous ones of leading companies follow
	Since April 1	A dditions vest^rdav
Increased earnings .	173	8
Decreased earnings	648	14
Unchanged dividends.	. .	537	13
Increased dividends. . .	11	O
Decreased dividends	.	74	1
Omitted dividends	50	1
High and Low Brices
Monday, on the New York Steck . . itge,
three stocks made new highs and 129 new lows		
for the year 1931	or longer.	
Gillette KK pf {	New Highs Fhil <•»«%pfB i	full Pjewmol
Air Redoctlon ’	Next i^o wn D Jb KG W pf .	Noranda Mln.
Alletha pfww	Detroit J.<llitn	Nurftk
Allied Cheni'l	l»u 1‘ont de N	Norfolk A. XX
Alllat balrnrr*	Ijttlmnn Ko<l	Packard Mot
AlphaPt Crm	Klr<* AutolAte	Pan Am H.
AmA^rC !>•!	J.lrctrlc PAI.I ,	Para-i'ubti* .
Amer < an.	Fed I. A 1 pf ,	ParkI tab C op
Am Ch pfww	Food Machine '	Cathc K%« h .
Am A For'n 1*	Foater W U’lcr	t’ron f»lx 4 rm
Am Mrtnl* .	,	General ( able	Prnn l> ( pf
AI*Jtr. pCA Nt a ;	Gm Klertrlc |	Feoplee <■*»
Am Roll .Mill	Geneml Foodi	Phelpe Doric*
AmSol&Ch pt.	GeaKItv pfww '	Radio Keith.
Am steel f-d.v	Gold Unit ...	,	Railroad Sec.
Am Tri A Tri	Hanna < o pf.	KemKnnd 2pf
Am T» pr 1*' pf	Hartman 15 .	Rutland pf .
Am Water XV	Houston Oil.	SC J Sou XX
Amer Zinc .	Houston Oil n	Seneca Copper
Armour II A ,	>lud»on Motor	f'ou Calif F.d
Armour Ell pf	lnjcvrNoll K d.	Studelmkrr .
Atehlana . . ..	lnt Knp Tr rt ■	Thatcher Mfr
Atl Gulf pr . .	Inter < arrlrr	Timken Roll
Hnnjror & Ar	lnt IlnrtrMrr	I leu * Co.
B<*rh Nt Pk	lnt R> C A pf	t'nlun ^Paelfle
Biaw-Knoxfr ’	Intertypr .	I n Am Bo* n
Hkt.vn I n <«n«	1	John* Mitox'lr	I nit Cljrar pr
Brnnew'k Ter >	KJsrett * Mr	V R Freight..
Bticy Krle pf 1	Lire A My B	V 6 Steel. ..
Budd KO	.	'	via* > a < o .	Vanadium Cor
Byrm (A M) . J	XLajrma Cop	Xa Car C 7pf
Caterpillar Tr	Marino Mldld.	Wabaab pf A
f'hrenn'k Cor. |	Ulnn Moline	Warren Bro*.
fhr> £ Ohio	j	Vlurrar Corp	Weapon O < S
Chi Grt W pf 1	NukIi Motor*	Weat Pacific
( hl Rk Ifr	\nxh C Jt S I.	M'r»t	Union
Coca-Cola ..	*•	Nnt Cnnh K A	Weals Air B.
Co! Fuel nrw '	Nat Pr A I-t	Meaton KI In
t'olum < arbon |	Xat Steel. ..	Wlleon Jb Co
Com Solvent*.	\nr *uppl,v pf	XVIIeon A C pf
Corn Prducte ,	Nat hnrety.	XVHeon dr CoA
Crucible Steel i	X ew port	< o	Worth Pump.
Cuban AmS pf	Newton Steel	Teltow Trk 15
Drbrnhnm* S 1	M & Harlem	1’olllrT S A XV
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.