Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 4, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
'Ey Ttichard E. Edmondson
Wall Street heaved a sigh of relief yesterday as leading stocks threw pressure aside, and engaged In the most sustained rally seen in many weeks. Unquestionably, the principal cause of this turn, for the better was an extensively oversold position resulting from tne persistent declines that made the downward movement from the February highs one of phases of the bear market over months.
However, covery was refusal to cision permitting of New York
the severest the last 21
mended, and the stock responded with a vigorous advance to new high ground on the rally. In connection with the buying of Johns-Manville, it was reported that the company*® earnings in April exceeded results for the entire first quarter. Johns-Manville has been^successful in cutting down operating costs substantially, so that any pick-up in its business should find reflection in higher profits.
immediate impetus supplied by the appeal the lower court the Vacuum merger. This
for the re- Weekly steel reviews gave voice to a thought government’s that has recently been in the mind of many oh- i . de- ' servers that the depressing action of the stock I Oil-Standard t market was having a restraining influence on 1 development I general business. Iron Age declared that the
was taken as evidence of the government's j current reluctance of steel consumers to place willingness to do everything in Its power to aid 1 orders was mainly a reflection of Wall Street
constructive business enterprises. It was interpreted to mean that consolidation steps in other branches of trade would receive stimulus.
Another important factor in the improved tone displayed by the main body of stocks was the action of leading Wall Street banks in reducing marginal requirements on collateral borrowings to 20$©. from 25re previously. This decrease reflected the greater confidence prevailing in banking quarters over the present position of the market, and buying activities in standard stocks derived no little encouragement from this attitude.
Rallying tendencies appeared in leading stocks promptly at the opening, reflecting the strengthened technical situation created by re- : cent heavy liquidation. Moreover, the trade • news was of more cheerful character, particu- ' larly the freight traffic figures for the week j ended May 23. Latter showed an unexpected ; gain, scoring an increase of 7,339 cars over the ■ previous week
Renewed unsettlement cropped out toward the end of the first hour, due to fresh bursts of selling in individual issues Large offerings of Anaconda, Radio Corp., J. I. Case, and Eastman Kodak were thrown	"	‘	‘	'
stocks affected broke current movement.
However, pivotal forth stout resistance to these further sinking spells, which were accentuated by pronounced heaviness In the grain markets where ' * wheat broke to a new low since 1595.	■“
noon, the depressing influence of these was overcome, and the principal stocks whole market in a broad upswing.
New York Central, Atchison. Union and other high-grade rails rebounded from their recent lows, and bears found a decided scarcity of offerings for covering purposes. With the rails setting a rapid pace on the upside, the rally gained greater breadth and momentum as the afternoon progressed. Steel, Ann nenn Can, and other outstanding industrials scored substantial gains, and the whole market displayed a strong tone during the last hour reaching the day’s best levels in the final dealings
on the market, and to the lowest levels of
rails and Industrials
the the
put
July Toward factors led the
Pacific ■ harp y
gloom, asserting that “exaggerated caution is resulting in the piling up of deferred needs which, when released, should tend, to make the eventual upturn in demand more pronounced.”
As a matter of fact, thoughtful economists have felt for several weeks that the decline in stock prices bad reached the stage where it was feeding upon itself, rather than foreshadowing additional recessions in commercial and Industrial activities. It is recognized that many stocks have been passing through a period of internal readjustment that mirrored the necessities of the sellers instead of representing a reappraisal of earnings prospects. So long as forced and discouraged liquidation continues, it is felt that business sentiment will be adversely affected, and that not until this pressure lifts will the action of the market afford a guide to trade prospects
Since so much courage is required to buy stocks under the present troubled circumstances, it is evident that the accumulation that has come into the market during the recent sinking spells has been for far-sighted interests. Further reduction of §216.444.474 in the collateral borrowings of Stock Exchange members last month demonstrated the passing of stocks from weak to strong hands was continuing in substantial volume. When the last of the selling forced by economic necessities and shattered nerves has dribbled in. the position of the market itself will strengthen the groundwork on which business revival must be erected.
Steel reviews again had difficulty in discovering m *	......... "
structure rate was the best ing their mand, notably the automobile trade, doing quite as well
Construction still holds its position as steadiest source of demand and also has best prospects. I that about 50 povernmerr soon come up for bids _	.
promise to account for a fair amount of steel. Sentiment on the whole is not as good as a week or two ago, largely due to weakness in security markets.
Another point is that producers, failing to business, are paying Hot rolled strip mak-a $1 a ton ad-
the trade’s situation anything con-excepting the fact that steel output declining so slowly and that some of sources 'of demand were about holdown.
Other important sources of arc
denot
the the was estimated in the reviews t building projects will Pipe-line requirements
Considerable cheer was imparted to speculative sentiment by the appearance of confident bull tips on various individual stocks. Advices of this character have been notably scarce tn recent weeks, and the fact that they were again	_
in circulation afforded a measure of the better , ucts are weaker. Heavy melting steel is lower feeling prevailing in the financial district.	at Pittsburgh, but the market is largely un-
Johns-Manvllle was particularly recom- ' changed.
increase their volume o: more attention to prices ers have opened their books ai
. vance for third quarter, but certain other prod-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.