Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 8, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Leading- stocks were subjected to tests of their immediate market positions in the weekend session^ Reactionary tendencies, which had developed in Friday’s late trading, were again in evidence, making progress in many sections of the list.
Professionals took advantage of uncertainty over domestic trade prospects to resume bearish operations in the principal speculative shares. They were aided by the doubts in trading circles as to the staying power of the recent recovery. and by nervousness over Germany’s demand for revision of the Young Plan.
Although the latter step had been expected . for some time, it was counted upon to keep ■ financial sentiment abroad in a disturbed state i for an indefinite period. With the bears active again, and buying orders generally waiting more substantial setbacks, extensive recessions from, the highs of the rally took place in most active J stocks.	|
Rails were subjected to considerable profittaking on the constructive outcome of Friday’s 1 meeting at which eastern executives determined : on concerted action in the effort to win higher; freight rates. U. S Steel declined on the prospect that the corporation’s May report on un- ; filled orders, due next Wednesday, would show’ a decrease of 250,000 to 300,000 tons. Although such a drop would be less than the seasonal average, this outlook brought large offerings of the stock.
American Can, Allied Chemical. General Motors, and Du Pont also gave ground under fresh pressure. Reactionary tendencies spread throughout the list, and various specialties broke sharply. Auburn dropped to levels representing a recession of 30 points from its recent high. Although trading was relatively light in volume during the last hour, the general list continued to display a heavy tone.
Under normal circumstances, price movements on the Stock Exchange afford a fairly reliable index to trade prospects Due to the depressed conditions recently prevailing, however, the action of the market undoubtedly has operated as a restraining influence on business activity. Fresh enterprise has been choked by fears invariably ari ng from persistent declines in stock values.
For this reason, the recent turn for the better in the mam body of stocks is counted upon to exercise a stimulating psychological effect on commerce and industry. Complaints regarding the harm the market was doing to public demand for goods have been particularly insistent from the steel trade
Experts estimate that the current rate of steel production is several million tons below the country's yearly replacement needs With supplies of steel products in consumers’ hands at low ebb. it is hoped that the lifting of pressure from the stock market will stimulate buying orders.
In addition to helping business further improvement m stock prices would be the best tonic that could be administered to the market itself. Just as declining tendencies gam momentum from the nervousness they engender, a sustained rally receives impetus as it proeeeus from the confidence that firmer prices create Public interest is attracted by the spectacle of rising quotations, and the upturn usually gams a following in proportion to the vigor that it displays.
Leading rails have given a particularly good account of themselves on the rebound from last Tuesday’s lows. High-priced issues like Atchison and Union Pacific have set n rapid pace on the recovery, reflecting substantial investment absorption on the drastic declines m Ir.te May and early June.
Technical conditions have partially accounted for the impressive behavior of the principal carrier shares on the rally. Having declined 40'f from their February high in the Dow-Jones averages, compared with a 37% recession in pivotal industrials, the railroad group has more extensively corrected its position
through the elimination of weak holdings. Moreover, the sweeping nature of thb declines obviously discounted further unfavorable dividend developments. Hence, news of this character should find a comparatively calm reception when it appears.
But in addition to internal considerations, the improved performance of the rail shares has reflected optimism over the important strides recently made by the campaign for increased freight rates. Within a reasonably short time, the eastern roads expect to have tr-arispoliation companies throughout the country convinced of the necessity of joining the movement to restore railroad credit and insure adequate maintenance of existing facilities.
w •	•
Carriers in the east have already drawn up a rough draft of the reasons they intend to include in their petition for higher tariffs. The5 have been informally notified by accountants that a 15% increase in freight rates was necessary to bring about a 10% increase in income, with proper maintenance. Southern roads, which have held back so far, are invited to attend the next meeting between the western and eastern rail heads This would include all railroads of any importance in the country in the proposal.
Railroad authorities, who, in the beginning, characterized the move for higher charges as n "red herring” to offset further reductions in freight rates, now take the matter seriously and have joined the others in expressing optimism over the likelihood of getting the increases before the end of the year. Most industries are encouraging the roads with their plan on the ground that they would be satisfied to pay higher rates if the increases would help to bring prosperity.
While freight traffic has continued to mirror the low rate of activity in general trade, car loadings figures m coming weeks are expected to make a better comparison with a year ago. Railroad business will be increased by exceptionally large crops in many sections, while the relation to last year’s showings will be strengthened by the fact that general business began to slide rapidly toward the middle of 1930.
Prospects for excellent crops in the Southwest are expected to be of great benefit to some carriers in that section Storage facilities have been expanded substantially to care for these crops. More warehouse space is available at Kansas City and at Galveston. Officials of the Rock Island who have just finished a trip through the road’s territory returned highly optimistic about the road’s cammgs outlook They say that the pessimism that prevails in New York is not discernible an the Southwest.
Recent rebound in stocks has been reflected both m the value of Lehman Corp’s holdings and in the price movement of its own shares, which had touched a low for the year recently of 45"X. Following liquidation attr-buted to the weeding out of weak holdings, the stock has closed up appreciably the gap between the market price and net asset value
Latter js slightly over S69 a. share currently. which means Lohman, at r.r.iund 54. is selling ut a discount of uppro-<;maT-''2y 21r7 below the breakup figure At the close of last week, when the stock sold down u.-otind 47. it had a not asset value of SGS. -o that the discount was about 30* t . Incidentally. Lehman Corp is one of the few management trusts listed on the big board which are paying cosh dividends
Advices from the Middle West are that independent sheet steel interests will get together in the next few days with the obect of stabi-1 Iizmg prices. Many of the higher cost producers 1 of sheets declare that, on a basis of present prices shipments arc being made at an actua’ loss. This is tnc first time since the depressor in steel began that concerted efforts have beer i made to help prices.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.