Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 11, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 2
Bear pressure came Into the stock market intermittently yesterday but met increased resistance and good upturns were scored late in the session. Considerable encouragement was adduced from the fact that volume of dealings fell off sharply whenever stocks receded. This was interpreted as reflecting a technical condition favorable for further upturn and, as a result, short covering and new buying took place while the moderate selling was in progress. This demand was sufficient to absorb the smaller offerings, and when the pressure was lifted stocks moved ahead impressively. During the early dealings uncertainty was quite evident, but this changed definitely when announcement was made that New York Central directors had declared a dividend for the quarter of $1.50, thus maintaining the $6 rate established three months ago. Another constructively-interpreted influence was the U. S. Steel tonnage report. Showing a decrease of 277,277 tons in unfilled orders, which was in line with previous predictions, it was much better than some of the speculative bears had been estimating. A third factor was the gain of 7.7 % reported in the sales of the Woolworth company for the first week in June over the like period a year ago.
There was moderate profit-taking at the end of the session, but this supply was easily taken care of.
Sentiment continues cheerful. Conservative observers point out that the market has been acting much better recently in resisting pressure and they are advising customers anxious to adopt the long side to buy standard stocks on a scale. They are counseling clients to protect their accounts with stop orders, the limits on which can be raised as further gains are recorded.	,

and floor traders, after testin the early dealings, covered on balance orders, but selling and
Traxlers Bought on Balance
Professionals ing the market
shorts actively later and purchased Commission houses had fair buying the upturns again attracted outside the larger firms sold on balance.
Changed Sentiment Indicated
In the past few days there have been indications of changed sentiment in the financial district. While some developments were disturbing, the action of the market has been less drastic than many anticipated, pend upon how the market will
developments of a comparatively nature, if any. in the coming weeks, resistance to selling on such news is evident, it could make more favorable the attitude of many investors toward the stock market.
Much will dereact to other unfavorable If Rood
likely to be closed, and there may be some additions to the number already announced. The larger institutions are said to be in satisfactory condition and not likely to become a disturbing factor in the market, A moderate amount of necessitous liquidation has been coming out of the Middle West in the past few days, which aided in holding the rallying tendencies in check.
Low-Priced Rails In Favor
Low-priced railroad shares are in favor with commission houses. A number of these stocks showed excellent rallying ability, while the market was moving up from its low of last year- Because of the low levels at which these issues have been selling it has been easy to attract a public following on the long side. Chicago Great Western preferred. New York, Ontario & Western, and one or two others have been mentioned frequently in the commission houses' discussions.
National Biscuit Revision
Interests usually well informed on the affairs of National Biscuit state that a reduction in the sales of some of the company’s products has taken place in recent months, and that while costs have been lowered there is a tendency to revise downward previous estimates of the current Year’s earnings. It is now believed that the results will not equal the $3.41 a share reported for 1930, although the reduction will not be large.
American Can Co.
Supported
The manner in which American Can has been supported in the past few weeks has been the subject of considerable comment around the Street. Only a short time ago the stock was selling at the same price as U. S. Steel common, but the latter is now materially under Can. One reason offered ir that traders who bought American Can sold Steel common as a hedge against it. Can is one of the issues which made its low of the bear market within 60 days after the initial break m October. 1929. Then the stock sold down to 86. It has not been as low at any time since.
Canada Dry’s
Dividend
It is the understanding in some Wall "'Street Speculative quarters that the sales of Canada Dry were stimulated substantially by the recent reductions in prices. Because of this fact, the belief prevails that no change will be made in the current $3 dividend rate when the directors meet within two weeks, although it is probable that the distribution will not have been earned in the first half year. However, an increase in earnings is anticipated later on to make up the difference.
the It wilf
Liquidation by	*
Banks
That liquidation is still to come through banks is the view in responsible quarters, is probable, however, that such selling
wait until the market has moved to somewhat higher levels. It is known that part of the supply was withdrawn from the market recently in anticipation of a better rally than has thus far occurred.
Short Covering Not T.’nusual
While past few Most of reactions line.
short covering has occurred in the days, the volume has not been heavy the bears have been waiting for the to take in part of their outstanding This buying has been the only demand
at intervals when selling has been in progress.
Woolworth Still Favorite	.
Upturns in Woolworth have been contested by some of the bears m the post fortnight, but the stock nevertheless remains the favorite of certain traders and commission houses. ’ interests pects of influence ever the sure the the higher levels has come from those operators who were playing for a few points profit.
These continue to call attention to the pros-the European developments and their on the domestic company. When-market Indicated lifting of the pres-stock moved ahead Profit-taking at
is likely on the part of working for better condi-syslems is apparent. Carol the various securities
Westinghouse Short Interest .
A substantial short interest exists in Westinghouse. This is Indicated by the bearish comment heard in speculative quarters. At times the bears have had difficulty in directing the stock to lower levels. Latest plans of the company call for increased operations at the East Pittsburgh plant and’ advices from that city state that workers who were on enforced vacations are being recalled steadily.
Cooperation for Railroads
That cooperation the various interests tions for the railroad rier officials,'-holders
and representatives of many banks seem to be working in closer harmony on this matter. And, in addition, the belief is growing that suggestions will be given more than the usual amount of attention by government authorities.
Holiday Affected Car Loadings
Freight car loadings for the week ended May 30. totaled 710,934, a decrease of 44.137 cars from the preceding period. The latent report, it must be remembered, included the Memorial Day holiday. As compared with a year ago. a drop of 149,130 cars, or 17.3rr. was shown while the total was 261.691. or 26.9'r, under the corresponding 1929 period.
How They
Stand
Earnings reports as compared with those for the corresponding periods last year, and dividend announcements as compared with the previous ones of leading companies
Increased earnings .. Decreased earnings . Unchanged dividends Increased dividends . Decreased dividends Omitted dividends ...
follow:
Since	Additions
April 1	yesterday
. 206	1
.	746	4
.	883	30
. 18	
. '105	4
.	79	6
The Chicago Bank
Situation
Private advices from the Middle West state that leading bank authorities in that section believe the local banking situation has been practically cleared up by the dosing of a number of State institutions. The mergers effected on Monday prevented any real difficulties. It | had been known that smaller institutions were 1
High and
Low Price*	’
Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange ’ 15 new lows for
'2 stocks made new highs and the year 1931 or longer.
New Iligha
Third Avenn* J New Lowto I Harbison W«l inter Carrier I.rh Port C pf Link Belt Co. I^ulalanaO pf
Pi>l>SEA(. 5j>f |
Am8<il4('h pf. Anucon M Ire Bury Brlr pf D^vnr&Riiy A Fed nt Mer*
Pitt* Coal pf. Heal Milk tins Solvaj pf ww Timken Oetrt Va Car C 7pf
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.