Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 6, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8	■> ’ ,	-
Abreast of tHe Market
Industrials txsed in the Dow-Jones averages closed yesterday at the lowest levels readied since October 27, 1923, ending the session at 86.48, a loss of 6.29 points on the day. Rails readied a new low since Mardh 25, 1898, closing at 45^8. off 4.03 -points.
Selling orders accumulated in large volume over the week-end following Saturday's break in the railroad, industrial and utility averages to new low ground for the major decline. Rails, which had led the downward movement in Saturday's session, were again subjected to pressure in the early dealings. New York Central broke to a record low for the present shares, and Atchison sold under par for the first time since 1924.
Pivotal industrials also extended their progress into new low territory on the movement. Steel common reached Its lowest price since 1915, and previous 1931 resistance levels were penetrated by American Can, Allied Chemical, General Electric, Westinghouse, and other leaders of this class.
Substantial liquidation of American securities was reported from London for the purpose of supporting sterling, which opened at $3.79 against Saturday’s closing level of $3.85 Sterling rallied later, a development which was attributed to the transfer of the proceeds of security sales in the Wall Street markets.
No let-up in the persistent stream of selling in the main body of stocks took place during the first four hours. Offerings poured into the market in steady volume, and prices worked gradually lower throughout the list. Support was restrained by the nervousness resulting from rapidly falling prices, and thin markets were shown in many sections of the list, with volatile specialties like Auburn, Eastman Kodak, and Coca Cola down sharply.
Some indications of a temporarily oversold position appeared at the start of the last hour, and rallies of one to two points from their earlier lows were scored by Steel, American Telephone, and other leaders. However, demand on this improvement was not equal to the supply. Erices again gave ground in the late afternoon, and movements in the final dealings showed pronounced irregularity.
SteePs War Market Recalled
United States Steel common's decline the last few days to its lowest levels since the early stages of the war boom in 1915 recalled the excited markets which developed when huge orders for American steel products began to pour in from the European belligerents. Steel common’s range in 1915 was from 38 to 89^a.
Steel’s final transaction at the time heavy foreign selling necessitated the closing of the New York Stock Exchange on July 30, 1914. was made at 51%. When the Stock Exchange resumed business on December 12, 1914. the minimum price on Steel was fixed at 4S. Gradual adjustment of minimum prices was made as market conditions dictated, and Steel was marked down to 3S early in 1915.
By March, 1915, ruling prices were well above minimum levels, and the Exchange governors found that minimum prices were no longer necessary. Steel’s opening sale when such restrictions were lifted on April 1, 1915, was made at 48, or 10 points above the previously existing minimum figure. Steel reached its peak for the war boom in 1917 when it sold at 136%. This figure was not surpassed until the Coolidge bull market was well under way in 1925.
In connection with Steel common's current
levels, it should be pointed out that the corporation distributed a common stock dividend of 40%, paid June 1, 1927. In other words, for the Investor who has retained bls holdings since 1915, the present price is based on 40% more stock than was owned at that time.
Regular General Motors Dividend Expected Buying of General Motors last week by Laird, Bissell & Meeds, and other Stock Exchange houses with Wilmington connections is estimated at 100,000 shares. The bulk of this buying took place from^Wednesday to Friday. This accumulation was for the account of du Font interests, and other people close to the General Mctors’ management. Although the outlook for the corporation’s earnings for the fourth quarter of the year is recognized as unpromising. Wilmington interests predict that the regular quarterly dividend of 75 cents a share will be authorized at the November meeting.
Investment Liquidation Substantial
A helpful feature of the recent heavy selling in the main body of stocks is the fact that forced liquidation of impaired marginal accounts has been relatively light. Offerings have represented principally outright holdings of Investors, both at home and abroad. With the collateral borrowings of Stock Exchange members down to the lowest levels since November, 1921, the pressure from the cleaning out of impaired speculative accounts naturally has been nothing like it was in October-November, 1929, when selling from this source constituted the primary influence in the downward movement
From a technical standpoint, the fact that the .deflation in brokers* loans has set a more rapid pace than the shrinkage in stock prices is regarded as significant in relation to the longer term outlook. As of September 30. 1931, the collateral borrowings of Stock Exchange members showed a decrease of 88% from the total as of September 30, 3929. In the same period, industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages showed a price shrinkage of 72%, rails of 689?, and utilities of 73%. When the pressure of investment liquidation lifts, the fact that Stock Exchange accounts are in such liquid shape is expected to count strongly in the market’s favor.
Intangible Factors Favorable
"There is very little in the way of tangible encouragement that one can gather from a review of the past week’s events, though a plentiful number of intangible considerations of a favorable nature are to be found.” says J. S. Bache & Co. "Thus, while the absence of seasonal improvement an the heavy industries is depressing, the long continued subnormal activities of such industries spell inadequate inventories which sooner or later must exert a stimulating effect on operations.
"The ending of the third quarter brings with it the general expectation of poor earnings reports for that period, so that such surprises as may occur in this direction will strongly favor the encouraging side. The further reduction in the loan account and the additional declines in security prices show the devastating progress of deflation, the end of which can hardly be fax distant. Unfortunately, the wells of liquidation give no conclusive evidence yet of running dry. But on the other hand, a powerful and expanding scale demand for securities representing well managed corporations is apparent, and the growth of such absorption foreshadows better davs.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.