Broad Street Gossip
By William J.Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 23, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
By William J. Gomher
Lower levels were established on the Stock Exchange yesterday. There was a resumption of liquidation at the opening: which came when the demand was limited. Operators who had been active on the long side recently were said to be waiting for developments from the Hoover-Laval conferences ‘ before becoming aggressive again. The supply increased in the rails because of disappointment over the rate decision and a number of these issues reached new lows for the reactionary movement. Signs of resistance were apparent at times in the industrials, but in the afternoon these issues succumbed to the selling and again moved lower. An encouraging feature was the reduction in the volume of dealings, when rallies were in progress, to a level considerably below the two preceding sessions.
Conservative interests who have been advising clients to pick up the standard industrials on reactions adhered to this policy. Buying of this character came into the market on a scale yesterday. Some of these observers expressed the view that the market could stage a good technical rebound, before the end of this week or early next week, and suggested clients try for profits on such a recovery when stocks have been accumulated on the set-backs.
Professionals Sold
On Balance
Professionals and floor traders were buyers in the early dealings, but when the market failed to show any good rallying tendencies some of these operators reduced part of their long lines. As a result, this element sold on balance. Commission houses had less business than in recent sessions. There was a moderate amount of outside selling at the start. However, later public demand on a scale was in evidence during the reaction, and the leading firms bought on balance.
Stop Orders Popular
The renewed popularity of stop loss orders was indicated recently by the action of the market following the rate decision of the Interstate Commerce Commission Selling which developed uncovered stops in various stocks, and these aided in establishing lower prices. It is apparent that many of those who had been following the previous advance were protecting their accounts with stops, the limits on which were raised as further gains were recorded.
Naturally, the first sharp set-back released stops, which were only slightly below the quo-tabtons prevailing previously in many of the leading shares. Many such orders were reached by the rails during the decline. Conservative commission houses had been advocating the use of stops to safeguard part of the profits which had accumulated on long positions during the recovery.
Important European
Developments
A number of observers are of the opinion that significant changes in European conditions have been sufficient to influence the markets for securities in this country. Definite evidence Is seen of a return of confidence abroad m the stability of the United States and the dollar This is reflected m the cessation of gold withdrawals and the resumption of the buying of bills by France
Tax Selling Small
This Year
In past years. November and December often have been months of considerable selling in the stock market fo'r tax purposes Losses were established by holders with the intention of reducing the payments to be made on incomes-The extensive liquidation already this year wiU
result in the selling for tax reasons in the next two months being considerably smaller than would have been considered normal in other years, in the opinion of many market interests. A number of holders of stocks established their losses in past months by selling while weakness prevailed.
Election Outlook
In England	_
Frivate advices received from important quarters in England by several leading commission houses which have important affiliations abroad say that there is confidence of the success of the National Government at the British elections to be held next Tuesday. That would be construed as favorable in this country, although banking authorities are confused as to what influence the success of the National Government would have on the price of the pound sterling.
Callable Preferred Stocks
Allied Chemical preferred and Johns-Manville preferred recently have come down to levels below their callable prices, although for some time previously these issues held above those figures. Both issues are callable at 120 and are entitled to 57 a share cumulative dividends. Allied Chemical preferred has been selling to yield practically 6%, and even in the current year of poorer income the requirements on the stock will be earned six or seven times. Johns-Manville has been obtainable to yield about 6’-rr. and while share earnings on the common this year may be only around 51.25. there still will be something like $20 a share applicable to the preferred.
Steel's Special Income
The Renouncement that U. S. Steel will report •’special income” for the third quarter was surprising to many. When the figures for the three months ended June 30, last, were published, the popular opniion was that the corporation no longer would have such a favorable item to include in its quarterly figures.
Various estimates have been made as to the amount of “special income” for the period ended last month In one quarter, it has been insisted that it will approximate $3,000,000. Confirmation has not been obtainable to the actual figure, but interests who should know have said that such an item probably will be shown in the statement to be made public after the close Tuesday. Many believe that this special item will be an important factor in the consideration by directors of the common dividend question, and will result m the maintenance of the current $4 a share annual rate.
Lambert Covering Dividend
Predictions from a well informed quarter that Lambert was earning in excess of the SS a share annual dividend this year were confirmed by the report for the nine months, which fell short by only 84 cents of covering the entire year s $8 distribution. The results were equal to $7.16 a share, compared with S7.56 in the corresponding period of 1930. a creditable showing in view of general business conditions and the reports of increased competition m the company's products.
How They
Stund
Earnings reports as compared with those for the corresponding periods last year, and dividend announcements as compared with the preceding
ones of leading companies
Since Oct 1 39
102
164
8
19
26
earnings earnings
follow : Additions yesterday 5
15
16
1
Increased Decreased Unchanged dividends Increased dividends . Decreased dividends . Omitted dividends - .
High and Low Prices
Thursday, on the New York Stock
one stock made new high and 17 stocks new lows for the year
3
Exchange.
Vnn IChmIi
Aml.it Fran pf Am X Gn* pt. Atl <’ & W I. Ron Ami A C'rownlVP 1pf flutvnlinn f*tn
i
1931
New
or longer. Highs
I
Lows
New
Hercule* row. l.rh Port Om I.ntliM & McGruwTI 1*1* Mln Honryw'l .Mjem A. Rro
Tri
P»ftn «*terl t nd-F.It F t nknn Drt lVherlStrel
Df
nf nr
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.