Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 30, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
Heaviness *in United States Government issues yesterday created an unfavorable background for security markets generally. With pressure on Treasury obligations pointing to higher money rates, and reflecting nervousness over prospects of increased taxation, additional declines took place in both the bend and stock markets.
Forty representative bonds used in the Dow-Jones averages broke to a new low on the movement, closing at 87.91, tbe lowest level touched since April 16, 1924. Industrials also broke through previous resistance levels for the major decline, ending the session at 99.80, a new low since October 14. 1934. Rails, however, held above'the low of 53.08, established on September 19, last, closing at 53-59.
Monday’s further recessions in the principal stocks carried Industrials and utilities used in the Dow-Jones averages to new low levels for the major declme. This action brought additional selling into the market in the early dealings. and extensions of the downward movement took place in many sections of the list.
Steel common penetrated its previous 1931 resistance levels, reaching a new. low since 1921. rtencrat Motors and du Font also dropped to new low levels on the movement. Kresge, which had been a weak feature of the previous day. broke 2% to 20 on lumped transactions totaling 10,000 shares.
Leading industrial and utility stocks were steadied toward 11 o’clock by the development of rallying tendencies in the principal rails. Improvement in the carrier shares followed further heavy selling of pivotal industrials during the first half hour. Transactions in this period increased to 500,000 shares, against 300,000 shares in the corresponding period of Monday’s session.
However, the urgency of tbe selling movement wjs temporarily checked by brisk gains in the rails, which were accompanied by reports that the Interstate Commerce Commission would shortly announce a 7%% increase in freight rates. New York Central led the upswing in the carrier group, and gains over the previous close were scored by Union Pacific, Atchison, and Pennsylvania.
Improvement in the main body of stocks, following the 11 o’clock rally in tbe rails, was only briefly sustained. Renewed selling appeared in tbe principal industrials and utilities around noon, and extensions of tbe downward movement took place in Steel, General Electric, Westinghouse, Allied Chemical. Consolidated Gas and American Telephone. Further sharp declines occurred in Auburn, Coca-Cola^ Eastman Kodak, Western Union and other Issues with thin markets.
Erratic price movements were occasioned curing the afternoon by auotLci short-lived recovery following announcement of the declaration of a SI extra dividend by American Can. Latter stock rallied nearly 3 points from its earlier low’, and other pivotal industrials enjoyed temporary respite from pressure. But continued weakness in bonds dislodged additiOnal selling in the share list in the "final dealings. and closing prices were generally around the lows of the session.
Sees Rail Status Unadjusted
Wage cuttmg is probably the last stage of our extended depression, in the opinion of Theodore Prince, of Theodore Prince & Co., who calls attention to the tact that liquidation is the keynote of all major deflations and they cannot reach their end until all tbe factors that enter into the manufacture and distribution of goods have been properly appraised at their market value.
rurally” says Mr. Prince, “this means continued liquidation until a point of stability has been reached. This applies to stocks, real estate, commodities, the unbalanced financial situation, such as Germany and England, and ultimately to labor. Final and ultimate liquidation is the stabilisation point which arouses buyers into aggressive action. This ultimately brings about the reverse of the processes which accompany a downward movement Buyers will scramble over each other to fill their long accumulated needs, just as they scrambled over each other to sell their long accumulated supply. The only industry today that still remains unadjusted is the railroad industry.
••The appraisal of a railroad’s credit Is in-
dicated by the price at which their bonds sell. The country cannot proceed to prosperity with our transportation system financially impoverished; nor can confidence be restored to tbe holders of some $12,000,000,000 worth of railroad securities, including savings banks,- insurance companies and investors, when they know the government has promised, that the roads would earn 5%% and not around 2Va%» as present earnings indicate. To raise rates in times of distress, when the proportion of freight carriage to the cost of the commodity becomes larger and larger, as the commodity seeks lower and lower levels, does not seem sound judgment. Labor, on the other hand, that consumes about 45% of the railroad dollar, ought to assume its share of the liquidating movement Since the wages of labor in' terms of purchasing power seem about 15% higher than they were before the depression, it seems logical and fair that the leaders of the labor movement in the transportation industries ought, in this crisis, to voluntarily assume the reduction until times improve.”
Treasury Tax Ruling
Holders of tobacco stocks are interested in tbe treasury railing that when a company has two classes of cr>Tr,Trtn'ri, one with and one without voting privileges, sale of one and purchase of tbe other within 30 days do not constitute -ra>«b” sales under Section 118 of Revenue Act of 1918, and therefore losses on sale of such stock are deductible in filing returns.
Holders of American Tobacco common or common R, and Liggett & Myers Tobacco common or common B shares who have a loss in biding* of either stock could sell the shares and switch into the other class of stock without experiencing much change in the price per share. Ameriran Tobacco common B ordinarily sells for about $2 a share more than the common or voting stock, and in Liggett & Myers at the present time the common or voting stock is selling for H point less than the common B stock.
In Reynolds Tobacco, however, the situation is not so clear. . A non-employe of the company holding tbe common or voting stock would not have much loss in the stock which is closely held and hCLq not fluctuated much in recent years. But assuming a loss in it, he could sell out and buy almost twice as much of the common B stock with the same return to him. If the nonemploye held the common B stock, however, it would be unprofitable to sell the B shares and buy the common stock which pays the same dividend, but now commands a 30-point premium over the B shares.
For employes of Reynolds Tobacco Co., the situation is somewhat different for bonuses are paid to the management and employes partly on the bftgi* of the amount of the common or voting stock which they hold.
Special Demand on Banks
Weekly condition statement of leading banks is superficially more unfavorable than is actually the case. Reductions of $249,000,000 in demand deposits, $5S,000.000 in time deposits and $16,000,000 in government deposits do not justify a conclusion that liquidation is proceeding at a dangerously increased pace, because this past week Included unusual and special demands upon the banks. First, there was the regular pay-off of checks drawn against September 15 tax payment*, a factor which normally makes deposit totals drop sharply. Second, there were the large earmarkings of gold for foreign account, which naturally caused deposit losses by banks which held foreign deposits.
The fact cannot be denied, however, that retrenchment and liquidation are still the order of tbe day in the banking; world. Also, there is nothing in the banking figures to indicate that business has shown a normal autumn upturn. Since mid-May demand deposits of reporting member banks have declined some $900,000,000 an loans and investments by $700,009,000. Apparently very much the same trend has been going cn in country banks.
Furthermore, banks have been striving primarily for liquidity for self-protection, and have not been fulfilling the ordinary banking function of lending to business and finance. A year ago loans represented 72.6% of banks’ earning assets, as against only 64.5% now. Holdings of government securities a year ago were only 12.6% of total loans and investments, whereas holdings of this most liquid type of asset have now increased to 19.0%.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.