Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 27, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street viewed favorably the joint statement issued at the conclusion of the conferences between President Hoover and Premier Laval. it was felt that the announcement represented a calm outline of the progress made toward international cooperation in stabilizing; world affairs, without any attempt to minimize the difficulties presented by the problem.
Undoubtedly, the feature of the statement which gave the greatest assurance to financial sentiment was the emphasis placed on the impor-unce of monetary stability as an essential factor in restoring normal economic conditions, “in which the maintenance of the gold standard in France and the United Statse will serve as a major influence.”
Stocks opened generally lower on profit-taking following the Franco-American announcement. Reactionary tendencies were extended during the morning under active liquidation in speculative accounts, based on the thought that further advances in pivotal shares would have to await a fresh incentive, now that the Hoover-LavaJ conversations had been ended.
Bethlehem was a weak spot In the steel division. dropping to a new low on the current reaction. Bethlehem directors are scheduled to meet for dividend action Thursday, and the performance of the stock reflected doubts regarding maintenance of the present 52 common dividend.
Rails also wore in supply, and good-sized declines took place in New York Central. Atchison, and other leaders of this class. However, offerings of pivotal industrial and utilities lightened on price recessions, and the outstanding shares of these two groups displayed increasing resistance to pressure.
British Klections Awaited
While tlic trading showed considerable activity on the earlier declines, the pace slackened perceptibly as the day advanced. Although confidence was entertained regarding the outcome of the British elections today, traders felt that important commitments could be undertaken with greater assurance when this factor was out of the way. Moreover, a tendency was shown tO' await the quarterly dividend meeting of V. S. Steel directors, due after today’s close.
Nothing happened to change the character of the market during the afternoon. Trading continued to drag along in desultory fashion, with price movements narrow, and transactions light in volume. However, the fact that commission house liquidation following the Hoover-Laval announcement had been absorbed with so little disturbance created a favorable impression. Important groups were reported to be planning resumption of bullish activities in selected stocks, and the market generally displayed a good undertone.
Rail Dividend Meetings
Some of tile selling in the rails was duo to uncertainty regarding the outcome of important railroad dividend meetings, scheduled tor this week. Illinois Central directors will act on the dividend today, and Pennsylvania Railroad directors on Wednesday. Illinois Central’s earnings so far this year have been unfavorable. In some quarters it is figured that the road will do well to cover its fixed charges far 1931. In view of this situation, there has been some expectation that the board would omit the quarterly dividend of $1 a share, due at this time
Owing to the fact that Pennsylvania's cam-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
ings are falling below dividend requirements at the present $3 rate, there have been reports that the payment would be cut to a $2 annual basis at Wednesday’s meeting. In the 12 months to August 31. last, Pennsylvania’s earnings were $2.46 a share.
e	Bond Action Hampers Stocks
A restraining influence on bullish activities in stocks has been exerted recently by continuation of unfavorable action on part of the bond market. Although industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages reached a new high on the recovery from the lows of early October In Saturday’s session, the Dow-Jones bond average dipped to a new low for the year at 84.75.
As bonds are watched more closely than stocks for an index to the investors’ attitude, the inability of the bond list to stage a sustained rally has handicapped efforts to extend the recovery in the principal stocks. However, foreign bonds, as well as domestic industrial ‘ and utility issues, have given a better account of themselves recently. Rails have accounted chiefly for the backward performance of bonds generally. On Saturday, for instance, the new low in the Dow-Joncs bond average was due to a good-sized decline in high-grade rail bonds, while both utilities and industrials showed ; gains on the day.
j Two recent developments held forth the ' promise of a better market for railroad bonds ! in the not distant future. These were the forI mation of the National Credit Corp, to restrain ! forced liquidation of bank investments, and the I suggestion of the Interstate Commerce Commission to strengthen the position of roads not earning their fixed charges. It is felt that the commission's plan will be adopted in modified form, and that the operations of the National Credit Corp, will have a stabilizing influence on railroad bonds as its activities broaden.
General Motor^
While earnings of General Motors in the j third quarter were the lowest seen for many
•	years, the corporation’s ability to maintain profitable operations during a period of extreme
' slackness in the automobile field, and of wide-I spread unsettlemcnt in general business condi-1 tions. again testifies to its rigid control of costs
•	and expenses. As a measure of the operating ! difficulties which confronted the corporation, it i is significant that the total output of the mdus-| try during the quarter was at the lowest point | since 1921, while the dollar volume of available ; business was materially below that year, due to J the substantial decline in the average selling
price of automobiles since that year.
Aside from the rcfiectiun In earnings of the unfavorable business conditions, the corporation’s report is distinguished by the large total of cash and securities now held in the treasury. These aggregate $264 107.166. compared with S245.S36.668 on June 30. 5179.037,071 on December 31. 1930. and S202.064.960 at the end ot September, last year.
They also were approximately eaual to the holdings of 8264,3S3,668 in cash and securities on June 30. 192S. the largest figure ever .reported by the corporation The current total, however, actually represents a liquid position considerably m advance of 192S when outstanding current liabilities were greatly in excess of their present amount, and when the corporation was about to embark on a heavy program of outside investment, entailing large expenditures of cash.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.