Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 28, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E
Nothing developed in the news over Thanksgiving to change the influences which, dominated the pre-holiday session, and declining tendencies were again the order of the day in the security and commodity markets. With industrial stocks used in the Dow-Jones averages in new low ground. on rhe current movement, no clearly defined r*<;M”rirp level was left above the October 5 low of 86.48.
This situation was interpreted to mean that the general list was headed for a test of its ability to hold above the previous resistance levels in the industrial division. Pending this action, many traders decided to reduce their lines, and this factor brought further selling into the early dealings.
Pressure was inreased by a break of nine cents in sterling, and by weakness in wheat at Idverpool where the price level was four cents lower than due. Latter situation correctly foreshadowed a lower opening at Chicago where declines running up to nearly four cents a bushel took place.
Unsettlement resulting from the recent lack of support for pivotal shares, and the unfavorable behavior of the grain markets, was increased by nervousness over European credit conditions. With $1,200,000,000 German short term credits maturing on February 29, the difficulties of the international committee preparing to work out an agreement in this respect were confused further by Premier Laval’s statement before the Chamber of Deputies that France would not permit German private debts to be put ahead of reparations.	‘
At the satac time, the action of the Prussian Diet in unanimously adopting a resolution urging revision of the Young Plan on a basis calling for complete cessation of ’’tribute payments" demonstrated that Germany would do even-thing possible to force her creditors to pursue a lenient policy.
Copper Shares Firmer
With the financial background muddled by the foreigTi uncertainties, leading stocks experienced general extensions of the downward movement. New lows for the major decline were reached by outstanding industrials, notably Steel and American Can. and additional recessions occurred in other pivotal issues of this class.
Railroad shares were again affected by pronounced weakness m bonds of the transportation group, which continued under severe pressure. New York Central reached a further record low, and the lowest levels in many years were touched by Union Pacific, Atchison, Southern Pacific, and Pennsylvania.
Anaconda. Kennecott and other representative copper shares afforded an exception to the general trend. These issues firmed up slightly m a generally weak market, responding to nows that Belgian producers had belatedly acquiesced in the production curtailment program outlined at the recent world conference in New York. This action had immediately favorable effect on the copper market wlie*e offerings at the recently established record low of	cents were withdrawn.
Fresh Incentives Awaited
Declines m stool: prices in recent weeks have been comparable to the losses in some of the outstanding phases of the downward movement over the last two years However, the volume has been small, contrasting strikingly with the tremendous activity that developed in successive periods of convulsive selling.
With the amount of forced liquidation coming into the market relatively light, the list appears to have been affected lately by the lack of effective support. Hence, the selling has had a depressing influence out of proportion to its total amount.
Buying activities have been restrained by a disposition to await the outcome of various factors in the foreign and domestic situation that seem lilzelv to conic to a head in the not distant future.» Undoubtedly, the development most needed, so far as Europe is concerned, is to clear up the complications created by the German reparations problem, and the German short term debts to foreigners.
The question of extending the commercial credits frozen under the Standstill Agreement, which expires February 29. will be taken up at a meeting in Berlin December 10, with A. H. Wiggin heading the committee of New York
IZ&ntOTidson,
bankers interested in the matter. Meanwhile, Germany has set the machinery in motioifr for revision of reparations payments by appealing to the Bank for International Settlements for an examination of her capacity to pay after the Hoover moratorium is ended. As Germany's present position constitutes an obstacle to world trade revival, developments in this respect will exercise a profound influence on stock movements over the remainder of the year.
Railway Wage Question
At home, the most pressing factor is the necessity for steps to clear up the railway credit situation through a settlement of the wage question. On Dcember 7 and 8, a meeting of the 1.500 chairmen of the various railway labor chapters will be held, and this assembly is counted upon to bring more tangible results than the recent conferences between the brotherhood chiefs and the railway executives.
Public opinion is rapidly recognizing the necessity for an adjustment of railway wages. Labor leaders who are* closer to the actual workers are expected to take into consideration the psychological benefits of adopting & conciliatory attitude rather than forcing a solution of the question through a resort to the tedious processes required under the Transportation Act.
Germany's Credit Problem
“Faced with a continuing dram upon her reserves, Germany is most urgently concerned with the means by which she may meet the demands of her private creditors without the collapse of her entire banking structure, which would in turn be followed by political consequences of the most alarming nature,’’ says Edward B Smith & Co. “Germany regards the security of her private obligations as vital not only to her future economic life but also to her payment of reparations.
“In tins it is to the interest of Great Britain to concur, but to France, which has but a relatively small stake in Germany's private indebtedness, the primary consideration is obviously that of reparations as apart from private debts. American opinion is divided according to its interest in the private debt of Germany on the one hand and on the other in the possible effects upon our national wealth that would result from a lightening of the reparations burden
“Every effort Is being made to speed the work of the new commission and since it will have at hand the factual data of the Wiggin Committee, it is expected that a report may be rapidly agreed upon and the way paved for an international conference, which should be m session not later than the beginning of the new yea* In recognition of the magnitude of this ent vn problem and its inclusive influence not only upon national budgetary and taxation problems, but also upon the commerce, banking, and individual business of the major industrial nations, we believe that too much stress cannot be laid upon the importance of its quick solution and that any real progress in that direction should be welcomed with true enthusiasm ’’
Cigarette Consumption Drops
American Tobacco B reached a new low on the current movement, but failed to follow the action of Steel. American Can. and various other pivotal industrials in breaking to new low levels for the major decline. Other members of the tobacco group also received relatively good support.
October consumption of cigarettes showed the greatest decline in the history of the industry, but partially offsetting this was a substantial increase in consumption of manufactured tobacco. For the sake of economy rolling of i igarettes and consumption of pipe tobacco has been taken up by many smokers, especially m states wheic resentment against state cigarette taxes has made smokers seek other methods of smoking.
Since all the large cigarette manufacturers also have substantial business in manufactured tobacco, the drop in cigarettes does not necessarily mean a similarly large decline in their volume of business. Further, the sale of cigarettes in packages of 50 have dropped sensationally from last year and early this year, and this type of business had yielded very little profit to the manufacturers.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.