Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 12, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Leading; stocks staged a general recovery yes- t terday, following further selling of the principal rails in the early dealings. ^Indications of a tem- ' porarily oversold position in Steel. American and other pivotal shares were translated into definite rallying tendencies, and stocks of this class led an upturn in the whole market.
This improvement set in when trading turned extremely dull on additional declines in various rails at the opening. Carrier .shares used in the Dow-Jones averages had closed Monday in new low ground on the current movement, ending the session at 68.78, against the June 2 low of 66.85. With the rails only 2 points above their previous resistance levels for the bear market, considerable pressure was again exerted against the leaders of this department when the session began.
However, industrials maintained a steady tone, and offerings of the rails dried up after the initial accumulation of orders had been absorbed. With other sections of the market refusing to follow the lead of the carrier division, the shorts became nervous, and extensive covering came into stocks in which large bear accounts were outstanding.	.
Rallying tendencies gradually gathered momentum as the session progressed. Substantial gains from their recent lows were enjoyed by Steel, American Can. Westinghouse Electric, Allied Chemical, and other industrial leaders. Auburn, Case, Johns-Manville, and other issues with thin markets staged sharp uprushes.	,
Trading grew in volume as prices advanced until the ticker was running two minutes behind actual transactions during the last hour. Short covering became increasingly urgent until The retreat of the bears took on the aspect of a rout.
Offerings of Union Pacific, Atchison and other high-priced rails were notably scarce. Arid issues of this class rallied in sensational fashion. Steel. American Can. and other industrial leaders reached the day’s best prices in the late afternoon, and the whole market displayed a buoyant tone in the final dealings.	~
Banks Sell Securities
Condition statement of reporting member banks of the Federal Reserve system, as of August 5 showed a decrease of 816.000,000 in holdings of United States Government securities and a reduction of $36,000,000 in holdings of other securities. This showing reversed the record for the week ended July 29. when government securities were increased by $32,000.000 and other securities by $21,000,000. Prior to that, member banks had been selling securities for several weeks, after substantially increasing their holdings during the spring months.
“All other” loans of reporting member banks expanded $52,000,000 during the week ended August 5. However, this gain was not regarded in banking circles as an indication of increasing borrowings for commercial purposes. It was attributed to resumption of acceptance buying by banks seeking temporary employment for their funs.
Thia^upturn in “all other” loans followed a reduction of $60,000,000 from the July 15 peak, after a rise of $165,000,000 between June 24 and July 13. In view of the low rate of operations in strcl and other basic industries, the opinion that the recent gam in “all ether” loans was due to acceptance buying was generally conceded to bo correct.
Canadian Pacific Vicld Low
Canadian Pacific opened at 22. off 2 points from the previous close. This decline followed a rally in Monday’s late trading on announcement that the road had declared the same dividend as paid three months ago. namely cents. Prior to that, Canadian Pacific had paid G21- cents quarterly.
Canadian Pacific faces a poor grain movement this year. Its subsidiaries. including hotels, mining companies, and steamship liner, arc reported to be showing smaller earnings than a year ago. On yearly payments amounting to $1.25 a share, the stock is selling to yield about 5.7 r/r, the smallest return offered by any listed railroad stock that is on a dividend basts.
Rate Arguments Rife
Protests from the railroad commissions of six western states against the proposed increase of 15% in freight rates were regarded by Wall Street as largely a routine matter. Representing communities largely dependent upon grain, it was natural to expect that these bodies would oppose higher freight rates, just as they are strongly favored by savings banks, insurance
companies and other organizations with large holdings of railway securities.
However, the question whether financial emergency is legal warrant for raising rates generally, is a serious one.
As things now stand, many railroads will be in a position of great distress by next year unless some relief is forthcoming.
Hence, it will be up to the Commerce Commission to determine whether the powers granted it under the Transportation Act can be exercised to afford the railroads a better return on their	in any event, the
ruling probably will not come before early October. By that time, the grain movement will be largely completed.
Market Testa Awaited
Rallying tendencies that developed in various trading favorites during the morning largely reflected the better sentiment cheated by recent comparative steadiness in the principal industrials. Stocks of the latter class have been moving in a narrow range over the past week notwithstanding steady declines in railroad shares, and other discouraging developments such as bad breaks in wheat, com and cotton, and weakness in sterling exchange.
Moreover, the downward movement in the carrier shares has been accompanied by extremely small volume. Up to yesterday, the turnover had not surpassed 1,000,000 shares in any August session, and transactions frequently have been at the lowest rate in five years. This low rate of activity, in the wake of the continued shrinkage in railway quotations is cited as further evidence of the liquidated state of the market, so strongly illustrated by the existing Tow levels of brokers’ loans.
But despite the comparatively favorable action of the pivotal industrials, many observers feel that a cautious attitude toward the market generally should be maintained. With the rails hovering close to their bear market lows, it is argued that a further decline in this department WQuld subject the whole list to a severe test of its position. Moreover, it is pointed out that the conclusion could not be drawn from periods of narrow price swings m the industrial department this year that a sustained recovery was in prospect.
It was recalled that a precedent was furnished in April for the recent limited fluctuations in the Dow-Jones industrial average, which had held in an area of 3 32 points during the previous five trading days. In April, the industrial compilation moved m a range of 5.27 points during the five days ended April 13. At that time, the rails were only one point above the previous bear market low. while industrials were 14 points above their previous resistance levels.
Since the period of restricted swings in the Industrials in April, when rails were dangerously close to their previous resistance levels, was followed by only a brief recovery and then by resumption of the major decline, experienced students would feel more comfortable about the immediate outlook if they were satisfied on the point that the general list had broken away from the near signal constituted by the recent persistent declines in the railway division.
Shell Union Oil
Shell Union Oil Corp, directors will meet August 19 to act on the preferred dividend.
. A rignificant point in connection with Shell Union’s gross profit of 54.83S.753 for the first six months of this year is that it was achieved after malting full adjustment downward in the value of all inventories of products, so that at June 30 they were earned on the books at the lowest prices which have been experienced for years.
East Texas crude, for example, is valued on the bocks at less than 15 cents a barrel. Oklahoma and Kansas crude, which was valued January 1 at 94 cents a barrel, is now carried on the inventory at 55 cents. Similarly. West Texas crude valued at the beginning of the year at slightly under GT cents is now carried at 2S1-cents. Califorhia crude inventories are valued at 14% less per barrel than at January 1.
Similar adjustments have been made in the book values of refined products, so that whereas the June 30 inventories of all products were reduced in volume by 8Vj% under January 1 gallonage. the dollar value was reduced in the same period by approximately 21^% or $10,366.745.
After heavy book write-offs for depletion, depreciation, retirements, etc., the company had a net loss of $20,959,507 for the first six months this year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.