Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 9, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8	-
Abreast of the Market
By Bichard E. Edmondson
generally to advance expectations. President Hoover’s xnesage to Congress failed to exert an important influence on price movements in* main body of stocks yesterday. Wall Street was greatly pleased by the President’s recommendation of an emergency credit instrumentality, along the lines of the former War Finance Corp., to extend aid to established industries, railway, financial institutions, and agricultural credit agencies.
General acquiescence was evidenced In Mr. Hoover’s thought that the existence of such a corporation, irrespective of the extent to which it was used, would bolster public confidence. However, the President had previously intimated his intention to make such a proposal. Hence, the suggestion had no element of surprise as a market factor-
An offsetting influence to the constructive nature of the proposed finance corporation was afforded in the President’s request for tax increases to raise $921,000,000 annually for two years from July 1. 1932. Moreover, the contents of the President’s address came on the market at a time when it was beset by renewed uncertainties regarding the dividend policies of important railroads.
Just prior to publication of Mr. Hoover’s message, announcement was made that New Haven had omitted the quarterly dividend of $1 a common share, due at this time. Although this news had been generally anticipated, New Haven experienced a fresh sinking spell, dropping to its lowest levels since 1924. With New York Central directors scheduled to meet today for action on the present $4. dividend. the latter stock also succumbed to pressure. Heaviness m these two outstanding railroad issues exerted an unsettling influence, and reactionary tendencies spread throughout the list.
Steel Extends I>ecline
Irregularity was increased by measures introduced in the House to check short selling of commodities and securities. One of these bills called for a tax of 25% on profits from short selling.
Reductions of two cents a gallon in gasoline prices in the metropolitan area also had some disturbing effect. Borden, and National Dairy Products were in supply on news of a reduction in retail milk prices at Boston to 10 cents a quart, the lowest level in 20 years. ■ Declining tendencies picked up momentum during the afternoon following a break in New York Central to the lowest price at which' the stock has ever sold. Active selling spread to pivotal industrials, and Steel common dipped to a new low for the 1929-31 major decline. With the premier industrial penetrating previous support points, the downward movement set a faster pace, and extensive recessions look place in active slocks throughout the list. At the close, the Dow-Jones average stood at a new record low of 37.94. compared with the previous low of 3S.25 on December 2. Industrials ended the session at RG.51. against the previous low for the major decline of S6.4S on October 5.
Cotton Rallies
Moderate rallying tendencies asserted themselves in the cotton market following issuance of the government’s official estimate of the crop at 16.918.000 bales as of December 1. While this was 15.000 bales over the November 1 indication. and compared with a final 1930 crop of only 13.932.000 bales, it was materially below the suggestion of the private reports of 17.133.001 bales and the average guess of 93 members of I the New York Cotton Exchange of 17.214,000 bales.
With the second largest crop in the history of this country already a certainty, the factor of whether the output shaded the 17.000.000-bale figure was not seriously considered as a real market influence in trade circles. However, the fact that cotton is off about 100 points from its recent highs, coupled with the definite assurance that the crop is not materially ©ver the November estimate, encouraged renewed buying.
Deposit Reduction Slow** Down
Continued liquidation of loans, investments and deposits is shown by the reporting member banks’ condition statement for December 2. Last week’s decline in demand deposits was only $7,000,000, however, the smallest since September 23. and recent weekly figures have shown a de-
cided slowing up in the rate of deposit reduction. Time deposits, on the other hand, registered a $69,000,000 drop, part of which may be attributed to seasonal influences.
While banks are reducing their outstanding commitments they are materially strengthening their position. Reporting member banks now hold $4,033,000,000 of government securities and $236,000,000 of cash, the combined items representing 23.5% of their deposit liabilities. This percentage compares with 15.6% a year ago, 14.7% in 1929 and 15.9% in 1928. One-fifth of the earning assets of city banks are now in either cash or governments, compared with only one-seventh a year ago. These figures give some idea of the tremendously strong liquid position of larger banks.
The country banking situation is hardly as favorable. While no detailed figures of their loans, investments and deposits are available, evidence of their position can be seen in the fact that the reserve deposits of non-reporting banks, i. e., mostly country banks, on December 2 were $506,000,000, a reduction of SSO.OOO.OOO from mid-July. These banks are currently borrowing $294,000,000 from the Federal Reserve as against $119,000,000 in July. These figures indicate some strain, but not so pronounced as in 1919-1921 when borrowings from the Reserve banks were almost consistently larger than reserve deposits, reaching a peak of 148'',- in June, 1921.
Rp.il Pooling Plan
Probably the most favorable aspect of the Interstate Commerce Commission’s consent to the railroad plan for pooling revenue from the proposed rate increases was the fact that the commission found that it could not carry regulation to the extent of forcing the roads to make outright gifts of the proceeds to weaker lines. Having determined that the higher rates allowed were reasonable, the commission had no alternative other than to place the responsibility for distributing relief in the hands of the railroads themselves.
Public sentiment, and the spirit of cooperation among the railroads indicate that help will be extended to the financially weaker companies. but the railway executives arc left free to work out a program in any manner they see fit. Another constructive feature of the commission’s alteration of the original proposals was the provision for application of the specific rate increases on a tonnage basis, instead of a car basis. This change will adjust the inequality in the size of freight cars used on various roads, and is expected to benefit particularly such lines as Atchison. Norfolk & Western Chesapeake & Ohio, Great Northern, and Atlantic Coast L.ne.
Trading Opportunities Cited
Impressed by the strong support in evidence around the low levels of the recent price range, but feeling that current speculative pyschology stands in the way of a sustained advance, many traders have been obtaining attractive profit* recently by buying on weak spots, and liquidating on rallies of two to three points. Calling attention to the possibilities of such a speculative policy. W. C. Burbank, of Clark, Chi'ds & Co., says:
• At these levels it does not require much courage or much money to take a chance. It needs a little of both. With no idea of immense profits, but with a distinct idea of continuous small profits, this market can readily be made profitable to the many people who today are sitting on the side lines. If experience tells us anything, when a rise comes, they will calmly watch it for about ten or fifteen points and then get m at the exact top. Why not reverse the proposition and buy good stocks at the present time and be ready to sell them on the next rally, repurchasing as recessions come from time to time ?
”1 believe the side lines are pretty badly crowded now with just such people, amply able to take advantage of this trading market, if thev could only be made to see that it is a trading market—if they could only be made to see that 90% of the bad news is out, and that with every effort of the administration and the important financial interests being directed toward reconstruction, it is about time to discard the spell of evil which has so long overhung the whole financial district and to take advantage of present day opportunities.”	-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.