Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 18, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8__________________________________ ______________________
Abreast of the Market
TBy ‘Richard, E. Edmondton
Sponsors of the effort to stage a seasonal recovery in stock prices encountered unexpected obstacle at the start of the new week. This handicap came in the form of serious banking" difficulties at Toledo, which necessitated the closing of several large institutions in that city.
News over the week-end of this development brought heavy selling into the principal stocks at the opening. Substantial declines from Saturday's final prices took place in Steel. American Can, Westinghouse Electric, and other pivotal issues.
Electric Auto Lite, which is located in Toledo, suffered a bad £reak. However, the stock was steadied toy the statement of President Miniger that the company had on hand $2,200,-OOO cash, compared with approximately $1,000,000 at the end of 1930. Mr. Miniger said that the Toledo bank troubles had been anticipated, and that only a very small percentage of Electric Auto Lite’s funds was on deposit there.
Selling in the main body of stocks lightened in volume after the initial accumulation of orders had been absorbed. Moderate rallying tendencies appeared toward noon, and the market generally displayed an improved tone. However. trading was extremely sluggish on this recovery, and prices moved in a narrow range through the middle erf the day.
Renewed activity developed on the downside during the afternoon on news of additional banking difficulties in Ohio. New lows on the current reaction were reached by leading stocks, and the trading was unsettled during the last hour.
Bonds at New 1931 Low
Saturday's further declines in bond prices carried the Dow-Jones average for securities of this class to pew low ground for the year at 93.41. As bonds are now lower on the average than they were when stocks established their lows for the bear market on June 2, some skepticism has been expressed in the financial community regarding the solidity of last week’s advances in the stock market. Interests taking this viewpoint contend that stocks have been rarely known to stage a sustained rise while bonds were in a downward trend.
However, economists point out that when declining bond prices reflect a lack of confidence on part of capital, there is no good reason why stocks should work downward at the same time. Many observers feel that the principal reason for the recent heaviness in bonds has been the difficulties experienced by banks in n any sections of the country, who have been forced to liquidate bonds to obtain liquid funds. Consequently, they believe that the downtrend in bonds may not have the * barometric significance with relation to business prospects that it would have were it free from the influence of frozen credits.
Wheat Situation Improved
More favorable aspects of the wheat situation are serving to clear the muddled atmosphere created by a sustained threc-year decline. Tendency in well-informed gram trade circles currently is to purchase wh*»at on all recessions, rather than as previously to sell on all bulges. World production this season for the first time ir five years will be insufficient to cover normal consumptive needs. Low prices will undoubtedly as in the past create a greater usage particularly for feeding.
Another of the grain trade’s bogeys may t>e dissipated by the fact that Russia is contemplating the abolition of its ration system, which has been on a war-time basis. This will serve to increase domestic consumption of a nation which is noted for its propensities for large usage of wheat and rye. owing to the scarcity
of meat. Russian 1930 consumption was aboqt 860,000,000 bushels, out of a total record 1,094,-000.000-bushel crop.
The present crop, although the acreage is 7% larger than last season, is materially below the 1930 output. Freer usage would mean the virtual cessation of Soviet exports. Wheat shipments from Russia during the past crop year totaled 93,000,000 bushels, the bulk of which was shipped between August and mid-Novem-ber.
Removal of this factor from the export market should stimulate the sale of North American grades and decrease the heavy surplus stocks held here. Argentina has only about 80,000,000 bushels of exportable wheat remaining in that country, while Australian surplus stocks are currently less than 30,000,000 bushels.
New crops for these countries will not be harvested until December and January, respectively. Moreover, the new crop acreages will be curtailed 30% to 40% because of the unprecedented low prices. Therefore, until January. North America will virtually hold the key to the export market. This is particularly true of this country, as Canada’s crop will be practically only half of last year's.
Stocks Developing Resistance
Evidence of an increasingly well liquidated stock market and a change in trend in many stocks is 'afforded by analysis of the position of stocks now and a month ago. Although the number of stocks showing decline has exceeded ♦.hose showing advances, evidences of weakness have been most prevalent among the “blue chip” issues and 49% of the stocks traded in on July 13 either advanced, declined less than a point, or remained unchanged in the month that followed.
, In this connection. J. H. Lewis of Goodbody & Co. makes the following	"For sev-
eral months now it has been noteworthy that in periods of general market weakness the number of stocks refusing to follow the stock averages to the same percentage degree has been increasing. Of 325 identical common stocks traded in on July 13 and on last Monday, 233. or 71 MSmode their 1929-1931 lows this year, but of this number making their lows 54. or 23% made them in the first quarter of this year and not in June when the stock averages made their lows.
“Moreover. 83. or 25.5% of 325 common stocks made their lows in 1930, About 42% of the 325 stocks cither made their lows in 1930 or the first quarter of this year. Of the total number of stocks cited 9 equalled their 1930 lows this year.
“This tendency for one group after another to turn up near the end of a bear market was cited months ago. It is the reason why we have been urging the accumulation of certain issues for several months No one is going to be able tc purchase a diversified list of stocks all at once and at their extreme lows. As each industry does undergo a proper change in direction of its prefit curve that should be a safe time from now on to buy the leading stocks m that group “
Woolworth in Line for Extra
Woolworth sold off with the general market following its spirited advance on Saturday which earned the stock close to the year’s high of 72*^ Recent buying of Woolworth by aggressive bull operators has been based on the belief that the stock is in line for a special distribution in connection with the recapitalization of the company’s British subsidiary. Woolworth directors are scheduled to meet for dividend action in October, and the possibility of an increase m the present S2 40 regular rate is being actively discussed.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.