Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 21, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
30
20
20
40
Sy William J. Gortiber
'Afarket'Ttiary
Average Awra<e Average Awa<*................... _
Stock sals* ..............
Stoce January	1..........
Bond sals*............  .
Knee January	1...... $2
Com*t. delivered...........
X. Y. October cotton . ... Chicago September wheat . Cal! money..........._ ...
Ninety day time money. . Acceptance*. 90 day* ......
Commercial paper...........
Sterling cable* ..........
New York bank rate . . . Federal Reserve ratio .
Complete tabulatUm o/ the opes. trtfh cherts, second from
Saturday
1830
.34 229 Sb -r .89	129.75 -r-
>.04
le
	
	
2*>^	3<ff %
4.85	4.84V«
m	
78H«-e	S1.6<%
Dow-Jon ss	stock over-
	
Steady liquidation brought the Dow-Jones industrial average down to the lowest level since 1925, and the rail average to those or 1897. The decline was orderly, probably because of the attenuated accounts in Wall Street and the low ebb of brokers’ loans. Steel sold at the lowest price in ten years. Other pivotal issues like American Telephone & Telegraph, Allied Chemical, and Atchison also were weak. Bonds continued to show thin, weak markets.
Nervousness over the situation in Great Britain was in the forefront of the situation. Great Britain with her far-flung invAchrmt* has suffered severely in diminished values.
As one banker put it, it is no longer a question of the status of local companies, but one of countries, and the situation must be one for governments rather than individuals to take in band.
During the last half hour stocks were sold heavily and many new lows were recorded with fairly large volume, considering recent speculation. There may have been some short sellers, but the kind of stocks under liquidation indicated that shares were coming out of boxes.
Considerable Switching In Progress
Commission houses report that more switching has taken place in the market in the past week than ever before. The tendency is growing among investors to dispose of securities which have been held in strong boxes for a long time, and to invest the proceeds in other issues at about the same selling level, but having a considerably more attractive outlook.
A good part of this selling has been coming into what were the high-class stocks. Probably some of the investors disposing of such stocks were prompted to sell by little more than discouragement over the market price. At least, this is the opinion of one firm which has endeavored to have clients give reasons for selling investment shares and buying others for the strong boxes.
Weakness in Bank Stocks
Periods of weakness have developed in bank stocks recently. Declines in those issues have caused rumors of probable dividend reductions to be circulated. This is not unusual, since declines in industrials and rails preceded downward revisions of distributions to stockholders. In leading banking quarters, it Is contended that the larger institutions have kept their positions liquid. It is said that most of the important banks still are earning their current dividends from operations, with some of them setting up good reser\res for any possible losses later.
Watching the
Kalis
Because the railroad stocks have been leaders in practically every market movement for more than two years, tendency is growing to watch the action of these stocks. The theory that the rails may lead in a good technical recovery. when it comes, seems to be accepted. Thus far, no sign has been seen of such a development, though conservative observers admit that a better market in the rails could bring about improvement in sentiment toward the general list for a time at least.
Selling to Pay Off Loans	.
Considerable selling has been coming into the inanket from individuals to provide funds forpay-ing off called loans, or against which the equities were low because of the decline in the market. Such conditions probably were reflected in the drastic breaks which took place in several of the low-priced stocks in the past week. The manner in which these shares were pressed on the market indicated that the liquidation was necessitous. With bids coming for only small amounts, the forced offerings lowered prices in such stocks. When the pressure was withdrawn, moderate rallies developed.
London Supplying The Bails
Offerings in some of the high-priced rails, notably Atchison and Union Pacific were credited to London account last week. Firms handling important English business were among the sellers during the periods of weakness. Probably part of the supply represented liquidation by foreign investors, but English speculative interests also are believed to have been putting out short lines in these and other issues here. The foreign selling has been disturbing at times, because it seemed to come when the market was about ready to stage one of its moderate technical recoveries, and checked upturns which had been started.
General Foods Earnings Holding
Earnings of General Foods are said to have
been holding well in the last few months. This is considered satisfactory In view of general business conditions and the experience of many other concerns. For the nine months ended with this month, it is probable that the decrease from the 52-93 a share shown for - the nine months ended with September, 1930, will amount to 10 cents a share or less. In the first nine months of 1929, the company earned $2.83 a share.
Western Union's
Action
The action of Western Union last week puzzled many students in Wall Street. The stock had been sold heavily prior to the dividend meeting about two weeks ago, but when the regular payment was ordered, active covering developed causing a sharp advance. The issue failed to hold its gain, however, and seemed to be meeting increased selling. The stock has declined to new low levels, a keen disappointment for those who purchased following the dividend Anncmncement-
Woolworth in
Supply	/
After holding firm for a long time. Woolworth succumbed to liquidation last week. The selling is said to have come from interests who had been working to make the stock one of the leaders. A supply also was credited to outsiders who had been attracted into the stock by its ability to hold while the remainder of the market was reacting some time ago. There is no change in the affairs of the company to account for the decline, which is attributed entirely to selling by discouraged longs.
How They Stand
Earnings reports, as compared with those for the corresponding periods last year, and dividend announcements as compared with the preceding ones of leading companies, follow: Additions Saturday
Since	
Increased earnings		July 1 . ..	217
Decreased earnings. ...	. . .	677
Unchanged dividends...	. .. 1069
Increased dividends....	. ..	25
Decreased dividends....	. . .	89
Omitted dividends		. ..	109
1
9
1
1
1
Low Prices High and
Saturday on the New York Stock Exchange no stocks made new highs and 320 made new low’s for the year 1931 or longer.
BkUm Hrwer Abltlb! Pw pf Adam* Eipr . AdaxnsExp pf AdtanecRume Air Reduction Airway £1 Ap AUt>sh&ny Cor Allied Chem'l AlllaChalmers AmAcr CC pf AmAzrC Del Am Brake Sb Amer Can. . . Am Can pi .. Amer Chain. Am Ch prww Am Chicle .. AmCoIorty etf Am European Am A For'n F Am F Fw Cpf AmBawail 88 Am lnteraat'1 AmAIchA Fdy Am Metals .. Am New* Co. Am Pwr & Lt Am F & -L. pf Am Rad&SS. AmBadSS pf Am Republics Am ship A C Am Smelt pf. Am Snuff . .. Am Steel Fdy Am Tel A Tel Am Tobiwco. . AmTobaceo B Am Water XV AmWatWk et AssocDry C,d» Atclilsou pf.. AtlaaP'der pf Baldwin Loro Baldwin L pf Balt A Ohio. . Bnynk CUrlpf Beatrice Crea BrthlcheroStl.
* Booth Plalicra Botx Warner Brim A Stra Bkivn Man Tr B-M Tren* pf Bklrn Co Bruniw'k Bal Bullard Co... Butterlck .. Byers (A M> California Pk, Calu A Fleola Campbell Wy Canada Dry.. Canadian t*ac Caterpillar Tr Celanese Am. Cerro drPn*«>o C M St F A F Clil A Nor XV CliYellow Cab City Ice&F pf City Store*. City Store* A Cler A Plttsh duett Peaby. Coca-Cola ... Colgate Palm Col A Sou 2pf Col G4E 6pf. Cfllnm Graph Golum Carbon Comml Credit C I T war nta Com A South.
6pf Conrr’a Claar Consollda Gos ContBakinr A Cont DlaFJbre Continent Ina Corn Prduct* Corn Prod pf. Crcom of Whs Crucible Stl pf CurtU* Wrl't Bnvlnon Chrm DcBrrrR Con* D A BG XV pf Detroit Kdlsn Doucla* A tree Du Font de N Enatmnn Kod El A Ma In. Elec AutoLIt© Electric FALt ElPwAE 6pf.
New Lows
ElP&L io’,pd Elec Ktor Bat Ear Pub S pf Erie .......
Erie 1st pf... Each Buffet Falrbks Morse Fashion Park Federal Ml r’idellty Phen KourNatlnv n Freep’t Texas GAlnv pf ww Gen Am Tank Gen Asphalt. Gen’I Bronse. Gm Electric General Food* Gen Motor*.. Gen Outdr Ad Gen Fab Serr Gen Ry Signal GnRealty A Lit. GUlette S B Gold Dust.... Goodrich .... Grab* xn Paige. Granby Con* Grd (KfcW)pf Granite C »ty Great Nor Or© Grt Went but Gulf Stales St Hahn I> 8 pf Barbison Wai Hartman B . Hawaiian Pm Hersh Cho pf Houston Oil n Hud & Mun.. Inceraotl R’d. Inland Steel.
lu'ahareaDe Intercom Rub Inter Carrie* Inter Cement, nt Comb pf. nt Harvester nt HydroFtA .nt Merc Mar I uteri NleUrl. Znt FaAFw A "nt PaAPw C . ntcrnatl Shoe Interl Silver. Int Tr! A Tri Jrwr! Tea... John* Manv*!© Knn*a* Cltv A Kanfman 1* S Kelly Tire 8pf Kelrlnator .. Kennecott KrcugerAToll. I^ne Brjant. Leh Fort (’em Lehljrb Valiev I.lb-O-F Glass I.lggrtt A Mr Ein: A My B I.udlam Steel McKeeapt T F Manh Rr m k Marine Mldld. Mnrltn Rock. Marshall Field May Drpt Str Mex Petrol . . MSr&SSM LL Missouri Pac. MonFir Word Morrrl A Co. Motor I*rod*. Motor Wheel. Nash Motor* Nut Air Tran ’*•’** Biscuit . Nat Bisc pf. . Nat Dairy Pr Nat D 8 1 pf, Nut Pr A Lt Nat Supply..
Sat Ten . .. Newton Steel N T Air Brke N T Investor* New Haven. New Haren pf Nornnda Mln. Norfolk A W Nor American Nor Am E pf NorGer Lloyd Northern Pae Orphrnm C pf Otl* Elerat pf Otis Steel....
Pacific Light r»dflcM!ll» .
Packard Mot "'aru-Fublix . ’eno R K .. ’’coplci Ga*. ’ere M pr pt ’ctrCor ofAra .^help* Dodge .'’lrrceArrowA .’ltts Vnlt pf ■•lttston Co .
Z*oor A Co B J*orto R-A TA ^ostal TACpf
Prairie Pipe L Proc A Gamb Pub Ser N J PubSKAG Spf Parity Bak.. Radio Keith..
Kralnr Bnnd Reo Motor...
Republic Steel BloGrande O. Bitter Dental Ro**la Insur. Royal Dut NT St Joseph Ld Scab Oil (Del > ehnrpADohme SharpADoh pf Shattuck ( KG> Shell In Oil. Sh Ln O 5’ spf Sorony 1 ac. . Southern Pac. Southern Ry Sou Ry pf. . Sparks W Itii. Splcrr Mfg pf Standard Gas Starret (L.S). Sterling: evpf Stewart Warn Stone A Web, Studebaker .-Superheater . Symlnfton A . Telautograph. Tennessee Cor Texas Gulf So Tex Pac LT n Thatcher Mf< ThatrherM pf Thomp Pr In© Thom Star pf Timken Rolf. Ttntiiue A XV-Tri-Cont Corp Trleontlnct pf Twin CRT pf Vnderwood El Fnlon Carbide Ln on Pacltle Vn on Fur pf l’n t Air A T Vn ted Carbo* Vn ted Clear. Vn t Corp Del L'n tCorDel pf Vn ted Fruit. Vn t Gas Imp v. Vn Piece Oyo
V	8 Gypsum..
V	S Lesther U S PlprAPdy U S Rubber ..
V	S Steel . .. Vnlt Store* A Vnlt Store* pf Vnlv Leaf Tob Vtll P A L A Vanadium Cor Va-Car Ch 6pf Vb Car C 7pf Vulcan Detin Walworth Co. Warren Bro«. WarrrnB evpf WarrrnFdAF. Wesson O A S West P El 4 XV P E 7% pf West Marvld. West Vnlon Westp Air B. Weston Et In XVrstrnrn Chi M’hlte Rock XVhitr S M of XX’lllys Ov pf. Woolworth .. Worth Pump. Tom’? SAW Zoulte Prod...
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.