Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 24, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
By Richard E. Edmondson
Renewed unsettlement developed in tixe main body of stocks yesterday following; the general recoveries in Tuesday's trading. After a fairly steady opening, the principal shares were subjected to additional pressure from tax selling, and other year-end liquidation, and reactionary tendencies again spread throughout the list.
Fresh disturbance at first appeared in the tobacco shares, reflecting nervousness over the agitation for increased federal and state taxes on cigarettes. American Tobacco B gave ground sharply, and good-sized recessions took place in other leaders of this group.
Selling broadened as the morning progressed, and the volume of dealings expanded as prices worked lower. After giving an excellent performance for -several sessions, railroad stocks came under the influence of additional transactions to register losses against 1931 income taxes.
New York Central, which had afforded stimulating leadership for the recovery in the carrier group from last week’s lows, showed an absence of nearby support, and lost a good part of its recent rally, along with Union Facific, Atchison, Chesapeake & Ohio and other representative rail shares.
• * •
Declining tendencies in pivotal industrials gathered momentum after stocks of this class had dropped below the resistance points established in Tuesday’s early trading. When this support was broken down, bullish sentiment was dampened, and long lines acquired in anticipation of further recovery were speedily liquidated.
Government Bonds in Supply
While the bond market gave a much better account of Itself than the share list, considerable irregularity was stirred up in bonds by active selling of U. S. Government and Treasury obligations. Securities of this class were in supply on the outlook for a large government loon in the early months of 1932.
This prospect served to offset the influence of an easier tone in the call money market Latter waa relatively free from withdrawals, and had no difficulty in maintaining the 3% renewal rate throughout the session.
Grain prices also were reactionary, but dulling was moderate, and recessions in wheat and com were held to fractional proportions. Although stocks were accorded some relief from pressure in the late afternoon, the price movements continued irregular, and recoveries from the daj’s low’s were mostly unimportant.
Banks Continue Bond Buying
Well-sustained leadership on part of bonds in the recent recovery’ in the security markets! has steadily increased optimism regarding the • outlook for further progress on the upside in coming weeks. Although prominent interests | deny that a banking pool has been formed to . operate in bonds, the character of the recent I accumulation of representative fixed revenue 1 obligations has demonstrated mat the turn for the better in bonds has been much more signi-■ncant than a rally propelled by buying for support purposes.
What has been going on is evidently not In the nature of relief work, but a reflection of the firm conviction of leading banking and investment firms that current levels in bond prices afford an unparalleled opportunity for permanent purchases. When a banking pool is organized to restore stability in a period of demoralized selling. the securities acquired usually come back into the market when this purpose has been accomplished.
In the present Instance, however, the buying that has flown into the bond market since the middle of last week is milch more important. Numerous fixed interest bearing Issues had been depressed to levels that had never before been i witnessed w’hen corporate credit conditions were t in such fundamentally strong shape. Realizing ; that this situation was due to a lack of public, i confidence rather than any apprehension regard, mg the likelihood of general defaults, banking and bond houses began to accumulate bonds that were clearly selling at bargain prices.
In view of the belief prevailing among Wall Street’s most influential capitalists that current investment opportunities in bonds may not again
be available for several generations, buying of this kind is expected to continue until the available yields on standard issues have been considerably reduced. With this factor affording steady demand for bonds, the action of this group is counted upon to have a stabilizing effect during any further year-end irregularities in the share list.
Marshall Field’s Dividend Prospects
Persistent selling of Marshall Field has forced the issue down to the point where a reduction in the present $2.50 dividend rate is considered a likelihood in Chicago financial circles. Company paid the regular quarterly dividend of 62 cents a share on December 1 and action on the March 1 payment is due in the next two weeks.
Lower prices for the stock have also attracted selling for purpose of establishing tax losses. Company's financial position is strong and it has been able to avoid considerable inventory losses this year through careful adjustment of stocks to current demand.
_ Tax Proposals Affect Tobaccos While November cigarette consumption made a better comparison with 1930 than any month this year since May, leading tobacco shares were subjected to fresh pressure. Holders of tobacco shares are paying close attention to proposals by the federal government and various states to either Increase or Institute taxes on cigarettes, fllgarette taxing by states has reduced consumption of cigarettes, and switched tobacco use Into other lines.
There is yet no assurance that the proposed increase of 50 cents a thousand in the federal tax -will be enacted Into law. Governor Roosevelt of New York some time ago indicated that he considered cigarettes as not properly belonging In the luxury class, so there is still some hope that New York will not be added to the list of states taxing tobacco.
' It Is suggested that the fact that tobacco growing states are largely Democratic will help the opposition to the higher federal levy. But it was only after a bitter fight that the North Carolina legislature defeated a proposed tax on tobacco. North Carolina is one of the greatest tobacco growing states. Is the largest cigarette manufacturing state, and is strongly Democratic.
Tear-End Influences Steel Trade
Year-end curtailment in the steel industry, and greater recognition to price cuts in preparation for 1932 business, were featured in the weekly reviews of the trade. Price weakness, which recently started in auto body sheets, has spread to practically all products used by * h. motor makers.
Consumers of plates, shapes and cold finished bars are demanding concessions of about S2 a ton in many instances. Producers of bars, shapes and plates are quoting 1.60 cents a pounds Pittsburgh, for the first quarter business. but a S2 concession on the two latter products is not uncommon. "Weakness m minor products and raw material also is apparent.
Estimating the week's operations for the industry at 21 % of capacity, after taking into consideration the holiday Shut-downs to be ef-tectecl, Iren Age points out that releases after the turn of the year should enable m.-ny companies to resume operations at about 35% of capacity.
-Jersey-California Merger Opinion
In the opinion of E. F. Hutton & Co. the proposed merger between Standard Oil of California and Standard Oil of New Jersey will not be consummated on any basis which will not give the holders of Standard of California at least a share for share exchange. Recent completion of the discover^' well of Petroleum Securities Co. m the middle dome of Kettleman Hills, where previous drilling had been unsuccessful, proves up an extensive acreage in the district for Standard Oil Co. of California. Latter carries its Kettleman Hills acreage, including that in the prolific north dome, at the nominal valuation of Si an acre. "On the basis of property values it is believed in well Informed circles that Standard of California might well do better than exchange on a share for share basis in the proposed consolidation," E. F. Hutton & Co says.	'
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.