Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 19, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Sy William J. Gomber
Uqu’dation and pressure continued in the stock market yesterday. American C^n and TJ. S. Steel were in persistent supply. Both, these pivotal shares broke through 100, which many had considered the point at which keen resistance would be encountered. Decline of the leaders naturally brought Mailing into other stocks. Greater part of the liquidation was due, apparently to the fact that both the rail and in* dustrial averages broke through to new lows just at the close on Saturday. This break was considered an indication of still lower prices and encouraged the bears to press offerines on the market. The supply was not particularly heavy, but with demand limited it was sufficient to cause the dip to lower levels. Just when the market appeared ready for a technical rally an unfavorable decision against the chain stores by the U. S. Supreme Court was announced. News of this ruling checked the recovery and caused a resumption of the selling which continued up to the close.
It is difficult at the moment to find an optimist in the financial district. Many are waiting on the side lines for buying opportunities. Conservative observers, however, are keeping customers out of the market. These advisors favor taking advantage of technical recoveries to lighten long positions, contending that the market is in control of the bear contingent, with bullish demonstrations entirely absent.
Commission Houses Sold on Balance
Little outside buying put in appearance. Liquidation continued on a moderate scale, and leading commission houses were sellers on balance. Professionals and floor traders continued to press leading stocks for sale, but took advantage of the weakness to reduce their short commitments, and covered at the lower prices These purchases exceeded the sales by this element.
Rumor Mongers Busy Again
Many and varied rumors are being circulated again to influence selling. Naturally, they are disturbing and result in increasing the supply coming into various stocks. Few have been willing to admit that the declines have been the result of natural conditions.
Dividend Actions Affect Investors
Dividend reductions and omissions in recent months have had considerable effect on investors. It has reduced their incomes and curtailed the amount of money that finds its way back into securities. To some extent, the influence of the dividend actions has been offset by the materially lower prices for securities, but the market has been feeling the effect of the smaller amount of funds coming in for investment.
Liquidation In	•
**Bliir Chips’*
Liquidation in what the Street is wont to call the "blue chip" stocks has been consistent for some time. This selling has been responsible for bringing these issues down to lower levels, which are more in keeping with the general business situation and the values in other sections of the list. Bear traders have sold these stocks right along, maintaining that such shares usually suffer heavily when the end of a downward movement in stocks is approaching.
These shares have widespread ownership, and the continued decline naturally must have disturbed some investors. A number who confined their activities to common shares in the past have been switching out of those issues into preferred stocks and bonds, chiefly because of the desire for increased safety of principal and assurance of return on the investment in the future. Many investors with funds available are known to have been hesitant about putting their money into the common shares, despite the low prices which have prevailed.
Steel Operations Still Downward
Steel ingot production continues to decrease, reflecting the small demand and the unwillingness of leading companies to produce in excess of actual specifications. With summer approaching, it hardly is likely that the trend will reverse in the near future, although fluctuations may come. The opinion in the steel industry is that at best a sustained upward tendency in operations should not be looked for until the end of the summer.
Pennsylvania. United Corp, owns about 26% of United Gas Improvement common stock.
Inquiries on • Gold Dust	'
Several commission houses report receiving many inquiries on Gold Dust, particularly as a result of the active discussion of discrimination against butter substitutes for the protection of dairy products. Naturally, this has affected Gold Dust earnings to some extent, but most interests do not consider the situation serious and have expressed the opinion that it has been discounted In the market in the recent decline. Estimates still are being heard indicating earnings will be between $2.75 and $3 a share ♦his year. The dividend rate is $2.50.
Steady Support in General Motors
Interests on the floor of the Exchange report steady support in General Motors. A number of bear traders have made attacks against the issue from time to time in the past two months, but have met resistance on the reactions. A good sized short interest still exists in the stock. It has been run to cover at times, aiding in absorbing what offerings have come when attempts were made to force the issue lower. The good reports on the company recently have brought scale buying from outsiders.
How They
Stand
Earnings reports as compared with those for the corresponding periods last year, and dividend announcements as compared with the
previous ones for leading companies follow:		
	Since	Additions
Increased earnings. . .	April 1 	 151	Yesterday 3
Decreased earnings . .		579	3
Unchanged dividends		406	7
Increased dividends .		 9	
Decreased dividends .		 55	
Omitted dividends . . .		 42	2
High and
Low Prices
Monday on the New York Stock Exchange five stocks made new highs and 163 new lows for the year 1931 or longer.
Colffstr* P» pf I
Col Gn« 5%pt 1
Adnmi Expr , t Allrartxann (nr Alle*hn t'tww Alllrtl Chera’I AIIlNCh»lmrrB AlphnPt Corn Am Brake jsb Amor___Can. .
Amarr 2prA Amorlmti Ice Am l.ocomntv Am Metnh Am N Gm pf. Am	Co.
Am Rnd&sfi. Am Roll Mill Am bmottlnc AtnSolftCliem Am Ktrrt Ut|v Am Tri a Tel Am Water W Anaconda . .. Anaron Wire Arch Ditniria. Art Mat Con» Atclil»nn .....
■Inhlwln 1. pt B«!t a Ohio . Balt A O pf . nnmndail A.
Bnynk Clcinf Binxv-KnrixOc Sooth 1«( pt Rnrden Co, . Bo«ton & Mr. nricr« Mfr .. Bulluril Co. . . nnttrrirk . . . Cultiniet * Ar Cnntdlne Pnr Caplin! A<1 pf Cclanrae Am. Chminn'lc Cor. Che. A Ohio. cMstrxv pt Chi Rk Ur CRItr 7*. pt , Chile Copper. I City Store* A Co'umbla <•»« Cntnm Grnph Colum Carbon Continent Ina Corn PrdttctB
New Highs
Krr«re Co pf. [ 1 nlon rar pf I
New Low*
Cuba < o. ... Cudnhy Pnrk, havlaun Chem >rl * Hudson
Dev A Jt 1pf Xlec Antotlle ■*lrle ....	...
Kldrllty Phen ■’’Ink K 1-f pf von<! Mnrhtne *'*rrep‘t Texnt C.en Aaphalt. General Cahh Gen Cable A. Gen Klrefric Oenrral Milla Gen Fob Rrrv GnRraltrAl't, Gen Rofrart’n GenRt Cant pt <»d<! f >D«t,	..
Granby Cana <»rt Snr pt , llerrtilea Mot. llnuatnn Oil flow e Round lliid X Mnn pT Illlnola Cent. Inirrr«nlt B'tl. tot Ruitlnra*. Inter Cement. Int Comb pf. Int Hnr\e»jer lnt Malrh pf Itltrrl Nickel. John* Mnnpf Kennecntt Ijimbert Co. . l.ehmnn < orn. Idrrett A Me I.lrr * My B I.Ink Belt Co. LonElIrll A I.«i«>«e Wllr* X.nnla A \o«h McCall Corp.. Mormon Motr Mo Kan A T. Mlasonrl Pae. Munulnrweer. Nat Rlarutt Nat Pr A I.t Nat Meet. . . N X Central.
Vn Gas Im pf
Northern Pae New Hoven. Norfolk A Fenn 1> C pf Penn R R .. Phetpa Oodr* Phillipa Petro l’ltt* Coul pf Pitta Rteel pt Pitta United. . Pitta Unit pr Pitta £ TV 1* Porto K-A TA Prntrle O Jf C. Preaaed R Car Pullman lnr. Pnrltv Bnic.. RemKnntl 2pf ketirrave . . . ‘•hnrpA'Onhme Sliatturk (AG) Mlnrlnlr Oil Rlnrlnir O pf Hkellr OH . Southern Poe. Southern Rv Stone A Web. Sun on pr... Texan Com.
Tex Pnc 1.T n TldewAaaoe pf Timken Roti
Twin CRT nr Underwood KI Union Pnelflo I pitrd Caehoa U K Frrlyht.. 1 S Gvjxiurn . . n A Ind Ale. I S Realty. .. p K Rteel .. t'n't Stores A Vn Car C 7pf Wnlworth Cn. Warner Plrf’a Wraaon rx of West Mnrvlrl. Weat Pacltle We«t Pae pf. Wilcox GAG Wltlra Overhl Wllann A CoA Worth Pump. Zonlte Prod...
Steel Corp.’s Special Income
Although the statement of U. S. Steel for the first quarter did not include any "special" income, it is maintained in reliable quarters that substantial amount of other income will be shown this year. This may not be reported until the final quarter of the year.
A large profit is said to have been made on the sale of the Gary utility company some months ago. This property is believed to have been carried on the books of the corporation at a nominal figure. While the profit may be included in income or added to surplus, the funds received eventually must be reflected in the figures of the corporation.
Good Resistance in
Bethlehem Steel
For several weeks, considerable comment has been heard on the resistance which has been* shown in Bethlehem Steel. The stock has been holding above its low of the year although IT. S. Steel has been breaking "through to new low territory right along. Unconfirmed talk of scale support in Bethlehem has been heard. Technically, the stock has been showing underlying firmness, apparently because of the substantial short position. The covering by those who have been disappointed because of the resistance shown to selling has been a factor in the issue in the past few weeks. Bethlehem’s operations, like those of other companies, have been affected by the slackened demand for steel in the past few weeks.
Texas Selling On Dividend
With the time nearing for dividend action on Texas Corp., the liquidation in the stock has been increasing. Because of conditions in the oil industry, the Street is prepared for a reduction in the rate, and some would not be surprised if distributions were omitted temporarily despite the strong financial position of the company. The meeting of directors is scheduled for today.
United Gas Improvement Has Key Position
United Gas Improvement is In a key position tn any complete merger of utilities on the eastern seaboard. The company has large holdings in Public Service of New Jersey, important holdings in Connecticut and complete control of the situation in Philadelphia and southeastern
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.