Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 21, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondton
Leading stocks displayed impressive strength, yesterday, rising to new highs for the current recovery on a substantially increased turnover. Active demand for the principal shares was stimulated by the belief expressed in government quarters that the bulk of gold withdrawals from the United States had been accomplished, and the effect of the discontinuance of foreign selling here would now be noted.
Since world-wide financial unsettlement developed in the wake of England's suspension of t&e gold standard, American securities have been forced to absorb extensive international liquidation. Indications that this movement was subsiding, therefore, naturally exercised a reassuring effect on Wall Street sentiment.
Signs of relief from foreign pressure were strengthened by French purchases of approximately $20,000,000 in the New York bill market the last few days, a development indicating that the readjustment of interest rates at tHi* center was operating to reverse the recent outflow of foreign funds. With the 2% advance in the local bank rate in the past fortnight attracting French money into this market, it was considered logical to believe that no further increase m the rediscount charge of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York would be undertaken at this time.
Trading showed a marked disposition to pick up activity as prices advanced, and the tape for a time during the morning ran two minutes behind actual transactions. This indication that the line of least resistance was on the upside gave increasing confidence to the bull forces, and rising tendencies gradually gained greater breadth and vigor.
Recent Resistance Overcome
Around noon, the principal industrials and rails developed sufficient power to rise above levels where substantial offerings had checked recent efforts to extend the recovery from the lows of October 5. Industrials used in the Bow-Jones averages surpassed the October 9 high of 105.79, while rails improved upon the October 10 high of 57 43.
From a technical standpoint, considerable significance was attached to this ability of pivotal issues to penetrate recent resistance levels on the upside. Following the sharp recovery from October 5 to October 10. the principal shares engaged in a secondary reaction which wiped out almost exactly 50% of the ground gained on the rally. This setback was in line with the proportions indicated on technical factors.
Having thereby corrected its inside position, and subsequently extended its upward progress from the lows of earlj’ October, the market suggested that it was headed for a sustained rally, similar to those which followed the four previous periods of convulsive liquidation since the major decline started, two years ago. In each instance of this kind, a rally ensued which resulted in the recapture of half the ground lost on the preceding downward movement. If precedent m this respect is adhered to at this stage of the market, it would bring about an advance in the Dow-Jones industrial average to around the 320-level.
Copper Outlook Promising
With previous resistance levels overcome stocks pushed upward on a broad front through the middle of the day and into the afternoon. Optimism regarding the outcome -of copper conferences in this country was stimulated by the statement of Belgian representatives, on their arrival in New York, that Belgium would be willing to cut down production at the great Katanga mines to 40% of capacity. This would represent a 25% curtailment of existing operations.
Leading copper shares extended their recent gains, and new highs on the movement were reached by pivotal industrial, utility and railroad issues during the fourth hour. While profit taking created irregularity in the late i trading, the day’s advances were well sustained.
International Telephone
International Telephone was an active feature of the communications group, reaching the best levels of the current upswing on a substantial turnover. Brisk demand for International Telephone was based on reports that the company was negotiating with French Cable Co. with a view to obtaining control of the latter concern. French Cable Co. operates three transatlantic lines between the United States and France.
Chain Store Sales Gain e
Chain store stocks continue to show increasing firmness reflecting the recent seasonable weather. While sales during the latter half of last month were adversely affected by unseasonable heat, chain store interests report ’that October to date has given much better results, an especially active business having been noticed over the recent week-end. With a con
tinuation oL present seasonable weather conditions, it is likely that the representative such as J. C. Fenney, Woolworth. Kresge, etc., will turn in favorable October sales reports.
Banka Maintain Investments
Banking circles are decidedly encouraged by the improved trend in the banking and credit situation. Circulation changes for the latter part of last week are understood to have been practically normal, which, on top of the reduced rate "of withdrawals noted in the week ended last Wednesday, gives additional evidence, of returning confidence. Bank of France’s purchases of acceptances in this market will probably more than offset dwindling gold exports which have been noted in recent days.
As far as the general banking situation is concerned, deflation is still the order of the day, or at least was up to last Wednesday. Loans and investments of reporting member banks declined $188,000,000, making the reduction in the past two weeks $606,000,000 and the current total of $21,689,000,000 the lowest since 1927. Deflation of loans has been particularly drastic, they having dropped $2,400,000,000 since January’ to the lowest level since 1924. “All other” loans, so called commercial advances, are now the lowest for this season of year since 1922.
While loan reduction has been drastic, banks have maintained their investments at close to peak figures, and there has been remarkably little selling of non-government securities. Recently there have been very large reductions in both demand and time deposits of reporting banks- This reflects in part loan, pay-offs, in part currency withdrawals and in part failures. Demand deposits at $12,587,000,000 have declined $640,000,000 in two weeks to the lowest level for this time of year since 1923. However. it is encouraging to note that indicated deposits of country banks (non-reporting member banks) have stopped their rapid decline.
Standard Oil Dividends
Leading Standard Oil companies—New Jersey, Socony-Vacutim, California and Indiana— meet for dividend action in the first week of November. Doubt attaches to the probable action of directors of only one among these companies, the Socony-Vacuum Corp., which paid an initial dividend of 40 cents following the merger. Such a payment on 31.915.797 shares of stock outstanding involves distribution of $12,766,319. or slightly more than the quarterly dividend of 25 cents regular and 25 cents extra on the Jersey’s company’s stock, calling for payment of $12,759,234 on 25.513,468 shares outstanding at the end of last year.
Combined net earnings of Standard Oil of New York and Vacuum Oil for 1930 were $36.890,214, or $1.16 a share on the outstanding shares of Socony-Vacuum. not including the $23,749,471 non-recurring profit on gas properties sold by the New York company last year. Standard Oil of New Jersey reported net profit of $42,150,662 after all deductions last year* or $1.65 a share.
There is not likely to be any reduction in the $2 rate of Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey at the next meeting or the $2.50 rate of Standard Oil Co. of California, which two companies are to merge, nor is any reduction likely in the present $1 rate of Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, which this year cut its dividend from the former $2.50 basis. The Texas Corp, directors meet in the third week of November and are not expected to reduce the $2 rate.
North-South Line Discussed
Students of the railroad situation recently have been giving attention to the possibilities of development of a north to south line as result of the closer union between the Chicago Great Western and the Kansas City Southern, through the purchase by the former of a block of 106,3 00 common shares from the Alleghany Corp. Kansas City Southern reaches south from Kansas City, with its southern terminals at the Gulf Coast ports of Lake Charles, Fort Arthur and Beaumont.
Great Western links up with it at Kansas City, with lines to Minneapolis, Chicago and Omaha. From the point of view of traffic interchange. the Great Western’s line from Kansas City to the Twin Cities is most important, as it is a direct route for the hauling of grain to the northern milling centers. Recently, Great Western has received considerable grain traffic from the Kansas City Southern at Kansas City and has hauled it north to the Twin Cities.
While no official announcement has been made as to the price paid by Great Western to Alleghany Corp, for its Kansas City Southern stock, it is understood to have been aproximately $33 a share. The Alleghany Corp, acquired its holdings in Kansas City Southern in 3929, at a cost of approximately $95 a share. Kansas City Southern common closed Monday at 15.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.