Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 9, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
tion, succeeding Samuel Untermyer, was re! garded as a favorable development in circles ! close to transit matters, and securities of New | York traction companies showed rallying ten-| dencies. Mr. Curtin’s close association with ; John H. Delaney, chairman of the Board of ! Transportation, was regarded as significant. Mr. I Delaney	been insistent that the Transit
!	should promulgate a unification
1 plan as soon as possible.
While the consummation of unification will be a long drawn out process, securities of New York tractions still are selling close to their recent lows. Current prices are far below any figures which the prices the Commission is likely to propose to pay would equal on the equities, , after provision for the bonds.
At around 37, Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corp, common is yielding more than 10% on its current dividend of $4 a share. "While it is too early to estimate net income for the current i fiscal year, ending June 30. next, it should not fall below $6 a share on the common, and prob. ably will be substantially above that amount. Under every plan of unification so far proposed, a price which would equal at least $70 a share for B -M. T. common has been suggested.
‘ At 13, Manhattan Railway modified guaranteed is selling for less than one-quarter of the price proposed in the Untermyer Flan, and Interborough common also is selling at a very liberal discount from the Untermyer Flan figures.
A Dividend Increase
Along with other owners of Canadian Pacific shares. English stockholders of the road have 1 experienced a reduction in their income from this source. For the last two quarters, Cana. than Pacific has paid dividends of 31 li. cents a j-...--	_____o —__________ share, or at the annual rate of $1.25, against
Wheat’cnRaped in’the most extensive ; the previous $2 50 rate establish el when the old scorinjr gains i $100 par stock was spl>t-up on a four-for-onc ’ basis in 1930.
However, the fact that the dividend paid on
Stocks engaged in a general advance yesterday, which gained momentum as prices worked iiigher. Increasing strength, shown by pivotal ! issues was interpreted as reflection of the favor- j able impression created by more mature consid- | eration of President Hoover’s plans for liquidat- ; ing frozen assets.	;
Wall Street had felt that the market effect ; of this program would grow more tangible as it became more fully understood, and began to operate. Hence, the impressive action of the leading stocks bad a simulative influence in creating fresh buying.
Moreover, indications were in evidence that tha ultimately beneficial effects on American securities of this country’s position as the outstanding gold nation were beginning to appear. Substantial demand for dollars was reported at London, and Paris, and good-sized buying orders came from abroad for representative American bonds, while foreign issues were generally reactionary”.
International buying also came Jnto the share list at the opening, and prices were mostly above Wednesday’s final levels. Although moderate recessions took place during the first hour, a marked tendency was shown for dullness to develop on setbacks, and pivotal issues settled down into a narrow price range.
Bullish sentiment was increased by the fa- , vorable action of the market on reactions from the initial highs. Steady demand took advantage of slight concessions, and advancing ten- ; dencics developed on a broad front around noon. : Spirited gains were stimulated in New York Central, Atchison and other leading rails by widespread reports of impending developments of a constructive nature.
Grain prices joined the upswing in the stock market. "	---- ‘	‘	‘	'
recovery enjoyed since August 7	.
running up to nearly 3 cents a bushel. Pivotal industrial shares, including Steel, American	.
Can. Allied Chemical. General Motors and du October l^came after the sharp slump in sterling Font, set a more rapid pace on the upside when (	—	•	----
the previous high points of the rally had been ( surpassed, and new highs on the current move- ] ment were reached during the last hour.	j
Bullish Slgnul Given	J
Indications that the market was embarking • on a sustained recovery were given when the principal stocks extended their rallies from the recent lows, following the secondary reaction , m Wednesday's session. Ability of pivotal issues to improve upon the highs reached ' in Wednesday’s early dealings considerably strengthened the theory that Tuesday’s sweeping advances had represented a sharp technical recoil following a definite selling climax.	;
During the four previous phases of the liqui- ‘ dating movement over the last two years, stocks usually consumed a longer time m ac- 1 complishing secondary correction following the initial rebound from convulsive selling. When , this readjustment had been completed, rallies equaling about 50% of the ground lost on the '
1929, to April. 1930. from May. 1930. to September. 1930. from December. 1930. to February. 1931. and from June 2 to June 27. this year. ;
However, most observers felt that th** —* look foi a sustained recovery at this time was not impaired by the fact that the secondary’ reaction had been of such brief duration. Price shrinkages on the downward movement from June 27 to October 5 were extremely drastic, aggravated by the world-wide disturbances created by England’s abandonment of the gold standard Since the deflation had been excessive, it was considered natural that less time would be needed for secondary readjustment after the first rebound. Consequently, the belief that the market might bo headed for the recapture of half the ground lost on the June-October break gained many fresh adherents
Odd Lot Buying Gains
Stock Exchange houses with extensive wire connections report a notable increase in odd lot buying since the start of October. It has been the experience of some firms that demand from the public for representative shares in	_	_
small amounts has been the largest since prices j $18.06.” the firm points out. broke substantially in the initial stages of the '	’	-- *,f: ’
major decline during October and November, 1929.
Odd lot buying at that time largely represented the execution of standing orders placed far below the market, which came into play when quotations had been drastically adjusted. At present, the buying is estimated to be about 90% fresh orders which come in from day to day.
While the total volume of such business Is considerably below what it was m 1929. the number of individuals conducting the buying is substantially greater. It is estimated that fully two-thirds of the present odd-lot buying represents outright purchases by people who are taking the stocks out of Wall Street for permanent investment.
on Great Britain’s suspension of the gold standard afforded an offsetting feature for the reduced distribution, so far as British stockholders were concerned. Canadian Pacific pays its dividend in American funds. Hence. English owners had something in the nature of a dividend increase when they converted the proceeds from the dollar into their own currency at the lower levels prevailing for sterling.
Cott-on Shows Resistance
1 Additional implication that commodity prices were showing greater stability was furnished by the resistance of the cotton market to the government crop report, indicating production ; of 36.2S4.000 bales as of October 1, or 599,000 ‘ over the Department of Agriculture’s September 1 forecast.
1 Although on August 10 last, cotton prices . broke more than $7 a bale m the New York , market on the unexpectedly high 15.54S.OOO-bale estimate, traders have evidently become resigned ____ ___________ _ .	_	‘to the thought of a large crop At the present
preceding decline took place from November. 1 forecast, the crop is the largest since 1926. when . .	-	-	----- ' -	<=•—'-	ou-pU* was 17,977.000 bales In the New
York market yesterday, prices sagged 50 cents , a bale prior to the issuance of the government .he out- | figures and reacted only another 50 cents after the reopening call. During the afternoon, however, strong buying came into the market and futures recovered to score moderate gains on the day.
In informed circles it is believed that current prices under 6 cents a pound and at least 2 cents under the lowest production costs discourage extensive short selling and that the poor prices will force a sharp acreage curtailment from the marginal producer in addition to Texas’ compulsory planting reduction.
Radio Preferred B
On the grounds that the stock has been v.n-i justifiably depressed by the extreme deflation recently witnessed in all securities markets. F. F. i Cusick, Kent &: Co. express the opinion that ! Radio preferred B currently affords mterest-1 mg speculative possibilities. “In 1929, the first ! year in which the preferred B stock was out' standing, earnings per share were equal to ‘-------- ■	~	■	‘. “Per share earn-
ings in 1930 amounted to $5.17.
“Curtailment m income was due to unfavorable trade conditions, but dividend requirements were nevertheless covered. It is understood that the company has instituted substantial operating economies during 1931. and inventories are reported to have been well liquidated. For the first six months of 1931. per share earnings on the B stock were equal to $2.55, thus covering semi-annual dividend requirements by a margin of 5 cents.
“We believe that a more favorable showing 1 is to be expected for the second half of the year, . ! considering the fact that this is normally the company’s most active season, and also that . | further continuation of operating economies should be reflected in proportionately larger net income. It is our opinion that the regular $5 dividend on the stock will be continued. At current prices, the stock returns the extremely 1 generous yield of 37.4S%, which indicates, of - course, the speculative risk invnlvM.”
Traction Shares Improve
Appointment of John J. Curtin as special counsel to the Transit Commission on unifica-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.