Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 25, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson.
Sharp sinking spells took place In shares in which particularly severe punishment had been administered to the aborts. Atchisen, whlch'had displayed an extremely thin	on the up-
side, acted similarly on the way down. The same was true of Union Pacific, Reading, Western Union, Auburn.
Unsettlement In the stock market was increased by renewed heaviness in bonds, with foreign issues and domestic rails especially weak. With bonds again declining rapidly, selling of stocks increased in volume as the session .progressed, gaining substantial momentum by the start of the last hour.
Pivotal issues like Union Carbide and du Pont broke through previous resistance levels, breaking to new lows for the be*-** market. Steel, American Can, and other leaders relinquished most of their rallies	last week's
bottom prices, supply, with Gas leading group.
Public utilities were in large North American and Consolidated the downward Tn^ver^^nt in this
Bears Resume Selling offerings of Westinghouse Electric, Can, J. L Case, and other special tar*
Large American	___
gets of bear selling during the first half of September represented resumption of active operations for the decline by a group of traders prominent on the downside for the last two years. These men acceded to the wishes of the Stock Exchange in covering substantial lines on Monday when apprehension was acute regarding Great Britain's suspension of gold payments.
When the Exchange authorities gave permission on Wednesday to resume short selling, the bears did not immediately replace their short lines. Instead, they waited to see how far the rally would carry. When it became evident that the technical influences promoting the upswing had been exhausted, they renewed their hammering tactics against various speculative favorites whose position had been weakened by the elimination of the shorts on the uprush since the start of the week.
Despite the favorable reaction to wage, cuts, which were generally believed to be constructive from a long-term standpoint, the bear forces contended that the downward readjustment of values had not been completed. They cited the continuation of steel production at the lowest levels of the depression, and the failure of car loadings and electrical consumption to show signs of improvement. In £he absence of any indications of trade quickening, they felt that the market was open to further tests of its ability to hold above the recent lows, and succeeded in shaking out liquidation of speculative holdings acquired in anticipation of a more sustained recovery.
North American Heavy
Weakness in North American Co. common was attributed to heavy short selling. Analysis of the transactions showed a variety of Street names, indicating borrowing of stock for operations on the down side. That conclusion was
the the ac-
confirmed further by the relatively few shares received for transfer since the end of last week.
There is no truth to rumors coneer* 1<r,g suspension of the company’s dividend which is at the rate of 10% annually in common Stock-
While earnings of the_ North	sys-
tem have been affected, in common with the utility -industry generally, by unsatisfactory business conditions, the decline in net has not been such as to make a basis for any abnormal fluctuations in the market value. For the 12 months ended June 30, the company $3.89 a share and will report somewhat less than that* for the 12 months ended September 30. The company is in strong financial position and has no early maturities. It ranks as one of * strongest utility holding organisations in country and is noted for its conservative counting methods.
Safety Razor’s Business Maintained
Stock of American Safety Razor Corp., which was subjected to pressure last week in line with the generally reactionary market, has since recovered part of its losses. The market in the stock is thin and any sizable offerings or purchases have their immediate reflection in price fluctuations. Last week's slump is attributed largely to sales by foreign holders.
Safety Razor's business currently is being maintained on a level with that in previous quarters this year and indications are that the $5 dividend will be covered. Net income in the first six months of this year amounted to $505,773, after charges, equal to $2.53 a share on the 200,000 shares of no-par capital stock outstanding. That net compared with $702,990 in the corresponding period of 1930, or $3.51 a share. The smaller Income this year has been due, not to any failing off in demand for the company’s principal products, but to extraordinary promotional costs in connection with the introduction of the new Gem Micromatic razor.
Company’s finances were in an extremely liquid position as of June 30, last, with current assets equal to $11.60 for each $1 of current liabilities. Cash of $1,085,413, alone, was $694,110 in excess of total current liabilities of $391,303, while marketable securities of $1,097,624, would make these two quick assets 470% larger than total current liabilities.
Benjamin Block Bullish
"That the American market is again a stable one is attested to by the remarkable manner in which stocks have acted since the suspension of the gold standard by Great Britain." says Benjamin Block, of Benjamin Block & Co. "In my opinion, this ability of the market to absorb a flood of foreign offerings and mount to higher levels indicates that a definite change for the better has occurred both at home and abroad, and I feel safe in predicting that the stocks of companies that have been able to earn money during these times of depression can again be bought with safety.
"Of course, commitments should be made on a conservative basis and a due amount of patience exercised, as neither an overextended position nor a rapidly rising market is desirable at this stage of the recovery. In conclusion, I would point out that the natural resources of America—wheat, corn, cotton, oil, metals, etc.— combined with super-manufacturing facilities, and a decidedly strong financial condition, place her in a position to benefit as probably no other country will during the next few years."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.