Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 26, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
stock mar-
past because of the effect on its earnings of the failing off in general business. Revenues are likely to show a sharp reduction, according to many Wall Street interests. It was the attitude of these observers which brought a steady supply into the stock on occasions in the past. Those who have been selling the stock also hold the attitude that the recovery in earnings will be slow when business conditions change for the better. They base this view on the prospects that the company will meet increasing and keener competition in the future, Quite a few houses have been advising customers with long positions in the stock to replace the shares with others which are more likely to benefit earlier from general business improvement.
The reaction was resumed in the ket Wednesday. It was evident almost from the start that much of the technical strength created by the good-sized short interest la^t week was lost during the covering operations of Tuesday. Declines wore general in the industrial list, led by Steel common, but the significant development was the new lows which were established in many of the standard railroad stocks. These issues continued to meet the persistent liquidation which was interrupted bv the recovery of the preceding session. Declines in silver, grains and cotton did not help sentiment any, and resulted in selling by interests who insist that the stock market will move in sympathy with commodities for some time to come. With much of the short interest covered, there was a lack of buying and. while evidence of concerted pressure was lacking, the fact that the market was drifting downward again on small volume was discouraging.
Interests who had insisted that rallies should be used to reduce long commitments pointed to the reaction following Tuesday’s recovery as justifying their views. They continue to favor this policy and advise clients to remain away from the long side until the market demonstrates ability to hold on the upturns.
Commission Houses Sold on Balance
Commission houses had less business than in some time. There was little outside buying. The lower prices reached new stop loss order limits and resulted in an increased supply from the public. As a result, leading firms sold on balance. Professionals and floor traders contributed the bulk of the transactions. Many were evening accounts because of the holiday This caused both buying and selling, but the short covering by this element increased as lower prices were reached, and the purchases exceeded the sales.
Some Switching Into General Moton*—(GM)
Switching from other issues in the same price class into General Motors has been reported recently. There are many pessimists on the stock, but the fact remains that a speculative and outside demand has been in evidence at times during recent reactions. This buying was based on the theory that there will be a demonstration in the motor stocks in connection with the various automobile shows early next year. At such a time, General Motors, with its various models and its diversification in other lines, would be regarded as the logical leader. That there will be keen competition of business among the automobile makers next year seems a foregone conclusion, but General Motors is in a position to hold up its end m such
a situation.
being made of McKccs-Because of
McKeesport Tin Plate—(MV)
Further downward revisions are in the earlier estimates of earnings port Tin Plate for the current year,
the recent reduction in the price of tin plate, it is the belief that the company may be compelled to write down inventories to some extent. The latest predictions are that McKeesport will show earnings for 1931 of below $6 a share.
Commission House	,
Accounts	:
Leading commission houses report that cus- i Comers* accounts in many instances are barren ■ of railroad stocks. The action of these issues, i coupled with the talk of further dividend un- ' certainties, persuaded many clients to liquidate ; those holdings. Many have maintained their long positions in the industrials, although considerable switching has been going on in these holdings recently.
Because of the condition in the so-called ’	Street accounts, it is the growing belief
the^elhng of the railroad shares in the two -weeks has been coming from trusts other investment sources. Professionals 1 not been selling rails short in the latent ■
First National Stores—(FST)
First National Stores has been doing somewhat better than other companies in the grocery line. For the third quarter $1.35 a share was earned, compared with $1.20 a year ago. There was a moderate reduction in the dollar sales during the period, reflecting the lower prices which now prevail for many products. The fact that the per share earnings increased is indicative of a large volume in tonnage as well as economies and efficiency in operations. The company for the first half of its in excess of its $2.50 annual
fiscal year earned dividend needs.
met profit-taking the
Wall that past and have reaction, so far as can be learned, and outsiders who have adopted the short side have been putting out industrials.
International Silver's Position—(INK)
International Silver has during the recent reactionary trend, bui
stock has reached levels at which some of the original buyers are replacing the lines they disposed of during the sharp advance when silver metal was moving ahead It is stated m responsible quarters that the earnings indications are for an operating loss in the first six ».o eight months this year, but considerable improvement is anticipated in the final three or four months of 1931.
Interpretation of Gold Imports
Various interpretations have been placed on the gold imports into this country thus far this
month, but the one most often heard is that the i return of gold can be viewed as an indication | of the restoration of European confidence in the American dollar. This is considered a con-Predictions have been that the gold importations will coming months, with the United back a good percentage of the shipped from these shores after off the gold standard.
Awaiting Selling
Climax	!
Counsellors who have customers with funds to put into the market state that many of ; those have delayed purchases on the belief that a selling climax would be required before the market could stage more than a short technical recovery. On numerous occasions it has been demonstrated that a real selling climax often encounters good buying. While the purchasers may take advantage of any subsequent rally to realize profits, the fact remains that they stepped into the market and gave it support at a time when the supply was heavy with indications pointing to much lower levels. Whether these prospective potential buyers will continue to wait for a selling climax before taking a Jong position remains to be seen.
American dollar, structive development, heard recently increase in the States getting precious metal England went
I
i General Railway ; Signul—— (GltS)
Because of the low price at which General , Railway Signal has been selling there were in. timations in speculative circles a few weeks ago ( that the dividend would be reduced. However,
■	directors this week declared the regular $1 25
■	quarterly disbursement. Incidentally it was an, nounced that the volume of business on hand
at present is in excess of amount at this time last year. Interests m the company believe additional orders are in sight in connection with the economies which are planned by various railroads for the future.
How They
Stand
Earnings reports as compared with those for the corresponding periods last year and dividend announcements as compared with the preceding ones of leading companies follow:
Increased earnings . . Decreased earnings . Unchanged dividends Increased, dividends . Decreased dividends . Omitted dividends ...
Since	Additions
Oct. 1	Yesterday
126	1
438	23
539	40
12	
58	1
, 70	4
High and lx)\\ Prices
Wednesday change no stocks
new lows for the
York
Stock. Ex-
Car Loadings
Off 3.7r'/n
Freight car loadings for the week ended November 14 showed a decrease of 26,663. or 3 7' r, from the preceding seven days, or about in line with the estimates in Wall Street early this week. The total of 690.366 cars was 138,657. or 167> under the like week last year, and 292,560. or 29.7*V below the corresponding week of 1929. Percentage decreases from the 1930 and 1929 periods arc smaller than in recent weeks.
Western Union Being
Liquidated— (W)
Western Union has been liquidated in the
Adntno Expr . Afflllnt«>d rr.. AUtfKlt>«a> Cor Alle*bu ppvw Am Br Bn pf Amer Can. . . Am Cf*n pf .. Am <,li pf<vw Ant 1* I’t* 2pf Am Loconi pf Am I* A L. pt AF&I, p(A >ta AmWntW pf Anarun W lr«* Atsoc Apparel Atchiiort.......
Alchlaoti pf.
At lMRl**der pf Baldwin Loco Baldwin I. pf Halt A Ohio.. Balt A O pf.
<	nv l>or»bn pf
<	hl A Nn*- W
<	h It I A r«c CRI*r 6% pf CRIAL* 7% pf
on the New made new highs and 81 made year 1931 or
New Lows
City StrtFe* A Crri Carpet, tnnvn <’*k pf ( iirtl* Pnhl«h Del Luck A W Dupont 6t«<lb. EIFA1. Erie ...... .. Eric* 2nd pf.. F.xch Buffet f-nlrbk» ftl pf.
Gen (iftA&K A Holland Torn Illinois Cent Interboro K T lnt Tel A Tel Kuns C S pf Kroger Groc'y ix>tils A >»nsb M «• Kruonllob Mtirlin Kock. Mmv Dept Str M K & Tpf A Mphittrk Corp Morris A Es. Nat Bellas H
longer.
t
Xftt Snrety... Ncluncr lire. N \ Central. X Y C A A I-. XYC At I.pf. >ew ilnven. Jsr-w Ha%en pf JSY A Harlem Otiw Sil pr pf renn K K.... I,e«»pl«-* Drue 1’ere 31arq pf. ICaitlo pf A., tbtllrunci Se<. IMn<»rnn<le O. bll.Soutbw pf bioiithrrn t’ne. superheater . Union Pnclflr IT S GvpR'mpf 1> S Hoffman. U 8 Really... U 8 btrel .
Vr Car C 7pt We»tlaEh Elea Went* El Ipf Wheel** St
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.