Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 30, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
fairing its cue from developments in the foreign markets, trading on the New York Stock JSxchange developed reactionary tendencies at the start of the week. General recessions took place in security prices in London and Berlin on news that the second conference in Paris had ended without agreement. However, Premier Laval stated that negotiations were not deadlocked, and would proceed without delay.
United States Steel. American Can. New York Central, and other outstanding rails and industrials experienced good-sized setbacks from Saturday's highs during the morning dealings. Profit taking went ahead in substantial volume on the theory that the market was entitled to a reaction after its recent substantial gains Moreover, it was felt that the principal shares were likely to be subject to fits of irregularity while the Pans negotiations were in progress.
•	• V
Activity slackened as prices worked lower, and the general list settled down into an extremely narrow range during the middle of the day. Assurance was derived from the statement of Under-Secretary of State Castle that the difficulties which stood In the way on Franco-American agreement on the debt recess plans were entirely technical. However, a disposition was shown to await concrete developments in this respect, and trading continued listless and largely devoid of special features.
One exception to the downward trend was X T. Case. Latter, which harbors a stubborn short interest, was strengthened by the higher levels attained by wheat prices under the influence of torrid weather conditions over widespread areas. Foster Wheeler, on the other hand, displayed special weakness, depressed by a deficit of approximately $200,000 in the first half of 1931. This loss has raised questions regarding maintenance of the present $2 common dividend.
• * •
Expectations of a slowing down of trading activity, to allow the market to consolidate its recent gains, were based to a large extent on the swift progress made by the main body of stocks on the rally from the June 2 lows. At last Saturday’s close, industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages had recaptured 48% of the entire ground lost on the thiee months’ decline from the year’s high of 194 36, touched February 24.
On technical grounds, the market was entitled to no more recovery* than 50% of the preceding decline. Consequently, it was reasonable to expect that the advance would meet opposition as the half-way mark was approached.
Moreover, the level of 156.93 attained by the industrial compilation at the end of last week represented the peak of the trading range from April 27 to May 15. As substantial distribution had evidently bean effected in a range of about ten points during that period, stocks were for sale in considerable volume when the upper levels of that area again were entered. Indications of ability on part of the market to absorb these offerings are now needed to suggest extensions of the recent gains.
While optimism ruled in important quarters regarding the chances of further gains in the principal stocks later on, it was generally agreed that the position of the market would be improved by a breathing- spell after the sharp uprush over the last two weeks. Price movements thus far In 1931 have consistently paralleled the lines mapped out ten years ago when the 1919-21 bear market touched bottom, and the trend was reversed.
Industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages made their bottom for the major decline on August 24. 1921. By September 13, a recovery of about 50% of the immediately preceding decline was achieved. Thereafter, the pivotal industrials moved in an extremely narrow range for more than a month. It was not until October 25 that the market had consolidated its position, and was ready to resume the uptrend, which persisted, with intervening setbacks of moderate proportions, for more than 12 months before an important reaction occurred.
Hence, it was felt that the market would continue to conform to the precedent of a decade ago if it engaged in a sideways movement after its 48% rally from the June 2 lows. Most observers expected that the recent advance would be rounded out with further gams in many sections of the list, but believed that increased profit-taking would be seen on strong spots.
This reasoning was based on the fact that the recent upturn had been stimulated almost entirely by psychological influences, and that no important improvement in general business was likely before autumn. However, it was generally agreed that the change in sentiment resulting from the Hoover proposals had supplied the impetus needed to assure trade recovery to an extent that would furnish the groundwork for better market conditions over the remainder of the year.
• • •
Some definite action on the situation in regard to rapid transit unification is looked for within the next 10 days, although the deadlock over prices may prevent it. The Transit Commission is making a determined effort to prepare a plan for adoption prior to the session July 7. when it is scheduled to resume hearings on property valuations.
Unquestionably progress has been made in the matter of a price compromise. The commission is attempting to offset the demands of the Brooklyn Manhattan Transit Corp, for $7,000.000 more than the Untcrmyer Plan price by coni tending that the company’s estimates of its ac! crued preferential are $6,500,000 too high. This : is based on the assertion that the company’s
■ accounting methods have been wrong.
Of particular interest is a memorandum on the situation prepared by Commissioner Leon G. Godley. Mr. Godley, m the past, has been 1 reported opposed to meeting the company’s , price demands. Earlier in the negotiations, he and Commissioner C. C. Lockwood were reported ' as unwilling to agree to the price requirements , of the companies, while Chairman William G. Fullen of the commission is more sympathetic 1 to the companies’ demands.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.