Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 29, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
By William.
J. Gomber
Market Diary
Wedn«U*y 2931 IndUEtrtxl* - - 100.52—3.73 railroad*....40 .6—1.33
utliiUe*.....39.49—1.70
t>ond*........ . 84.10— .41
.. 1,800.000 . . 485,848.842 . . 811.784.000 83,485.364.000 . .	7	.
..	6 60—.13
.	57%	.	.
. .	2^5**-
.
.	3 «r»
. .	4	% *4
. .	3 M1*
.	39 3 *V
.....................  -/	**• Doic-Jon— ao»9t wttK chartt. teconA from last pop*.
30
30
20
40
Average Average Average Avtrafe _.
Stock ....................
Since January 1...........
Bond sales............- - -
Since January 1 ....... :
Copper, delivered........
*C. Y. December cotian.. Chicago December wheat Call money...............
Xlnety day time mono Acceptances. 90 days . Commercial paper.........
Sterling cables .........
yjew York Bank rat* -• Federal Reaerx e ratio .
Complete tatiulatlon of
1930
390 73—<.22 3X4.74— 49
70 23—1 24 98 01	.
2.073.000 090.74* OOO 09.277.000 02.347.083.000 9*4
31.38— IB 78 4.—I'm 2*-r	.
JH 4 I. 7
2« I". 2*o fi 4 S5?|
s:i*
•fork ci<r-
bull market for most stocks ended in 1929. the oil shares reached their peaks a year earlier-1928. In the following year these stocks held within an average trading area of approximately 10 points for most of the time. Because they established their highs before other stocks, it is contended they might make a turn, upward before the others.
Earnings of the oil companies have been effect erf by inventory adjustments. This was true at the end of 1930. and is believed to have been the factor tn some of the poor showings for the first half this year. There is a probability that these Inventory losses are about over, and if so. earnings of the leading concerns will show up better in the future comparisons.
Reactionary tendencies continued on the Stock Exchange yesterday. The poor third quarter .earnings of U. S. Steel more than offset the fact that its S4 dividend rate was maintained. In addition, the English election results, though better than anticipated, brought various interpretations which caused unsettlement. Selling developed at the opening, and caused declines from the previous close. There were several attempts to rally, but these were feeble. The inability of the market to move forward after most of the heavier offerings had been absorbed, caused a new supply to come iSto stocks in the late dealings. Railroad shares have acted badly for some days, and these stocks were not aided yesterday by the reduction m the dividend on Pennsylvania to a $2 annual rate. The one favorable factor dur.ng the day was a good rally in the wheat market from its lows of the session, most options closing with fractional net gains.
Increased caution is evident around the Street While conservatives insist that the market is suffering no more than a technical reaction, they are inclined to advise customers to postpone further scale buying until there is evidence that the offerings are being reduced. Those with long positions are being urged jto protect accounts with ings against making prices are also given.
Professionals Bought On Balance
Professionals were forenoon, on the theory that could be replaced at more favorable prices, the late dealings, when a reaction was again m progress, they were active buyers, and these purchases exceeded previous sales. Commission houses had many selling orders, which more than offset the scale buying which was in progress during the recession for the account of outsiders.
Short Interest
Smaller
The short interest just now is smaller than in some time, judging by the various indications given in Wall Street. Reports on borrowings of stocks show there is a much lessened demand, not only in the loan crowd, but also m the private transactions which are made regularly. Despite this fact a large number of stocks still are lending fiat, and a few are being held at a premium. So far as can be learned there has been little heavy short selling in recent sessions, so that the reactions which occurred probably are due to selling by disappointed longs who anticipated a further advance, or to a moderate amount of liquidation, which comes normally when stocks recede.
Traders Flaying
For Rallies
Many professionals and floor traders, who were quite active in taking positions on the short side up to about a month ago. accepting profits within a day or two. are credited with having reversed this practice in the past few weeks They are said to be following the policy
stop aiders, while warn-limits	’
too near existing
active
Freight Leadings Off 2,145 Cars
Freight car loadings for the week ended October 17 made a slightly better showing than had been predicted in Wall Street. The total TG* 710 cats	° decrease r»f only 2.145
from the preceding seven days, compared with estimates of a drop of around 4,000 cars. The decrease from the like week last year was 169.386. or 181%. and there was a drop of 423,845. or 35.7% from the like 1929 period.
Lortllard Attracting	.
New Interests
It is said that Lonllard has been new market interests recently who accumulating quietly during minor The stock is selling not far from its
year, although it is confidently predicted in conservative quarters that earnings this year will be at least ‘32 a share, and may exceed that figure by a fair margin. The company is in good financial condition. The one factor which has kept down buying m the tobaccos was the fear of a tax on cigarettes m various states when the legislatures meet.
attracting have been recessions, low of the
sellers during the stocks disposed of In
Chrysler** Good Quarter
Chrysler Corp -s> third quarter result made a good showing, considering general conditions. The financial district asserts it reflected the aggressiveness of the management in going after business, which policy proved to be decidedly successful. Earnings were equal to 34 cents a share, which was in excess of the like perod last year, and was 36^'r above the dividend requirements for the period There have been times recently when good buying has been in progress in the stock, but it has been done quietly without attracting much attention. This accumulation Is believed to have been for the account of interests who have confidence in the ability of the company to continue the good comparative showing made in the September quarter.
New York Air Brake
Deflated
Various commission houses make the point that New York Air Brake is one of the stocks which had been well deflated in the past. The stock for a time held better than many others, but eventually succumbed to the forced selling m evidence in all directions prior to the beginning of the current month. The contention is made that the company is in good financial petition, with cash and government bond holdings estimated to be equal to about J6 a share, while current assets are placed at around Sil a share.
Lower Coots for Dome Mines
Interest continues in the gold mining stocks, not only in this country, but also in Canada, where these issues were unusually popular m the past. Advices from the Dominion state that Dome Mmes now is operating at much lower costs than the average for several years, and * he showing this year will be unusually satis-Estimates in Canada are that around SI 75 a share can be reported for 1931. which compares with SI a share dividend requirements for the year. Some local interests have been showing somewhat more activity m the stock at times in the past few weeks, on the theory that
of picking up stocks on the reactions and taking factory, moderate profits during the subsequent recover- st 75 « les This explains some of the resistance which has boon encountered during the technical setbacks in the past. As the market has been so
ha^'been 'keeping all the goid aiming stocks will become attracts many stocks within a trading range.
Europe Rolling The Kails	,	_
Houses which handle considerable European business, particularly from England, have been getting a fair amount in the past few days. Many operators abroad have covered some or their short commitments m the industrials, but have been selling rails at the same time. This selling, while not particularly large, has come at a time when the demand has been limited, and therefore has affected the railroad market. It checked the possibilities of rallying tendencies m this group on more than one occasion. The imminence of some of the railroad dividend meetings may explain the offerings to some extent.
Oils Could Be Leader*
Judging from the increased comment heara on the oil shares, it is apparent that many believe this group could be among the leaders in
agaan m the near future.
How They Stand
Earnings reports as compared with those for the corresponding periods last year, and dividend announcements as compared with the
preceding ones of leading companies follow:		
Increased earnings 		Since Oct. 1 .	59	Additions yesterday 5
Decreased earnings		. 18S	22
Unchanged dividends . . . .	.211	15
Increased dixddends 		. 8	
Decreased dividends		. 28	2
Omitted dividends		. 35	3
High and
Low Prices
Wednesday on the New York
_____________ Stock Exchange. no stocks made new highs and 32 made new lows for the
the stock market should there be a definite change in general market conditions From some quarters it has been reported that indications favor improvement in the industry, although it is admitted there are still clouds on the horizon.
Market students point out that whereas the
Am N Gu* pf. Am i* a a. pf A 1’il- P< A ato no 2pf Atvhlaoii pf. At I CoaBtl.lne Atlna Powder nwyuk ClslP* Brt hleh^m^tt. Cnllfomln Pk. on RB of
year 1931 or longer.
New Lows ( on<l<*	.
I>upont Emporium < p Fed Wat S*rv Illinois vent, infer R‘<1 pf. John* Mnnv'ie Krr*re Co pf. L.oal« & Nnnh MrKe*» >n£Rb Mln Honcyw’l
M SP * M Morrtii A £*. >it Lead pfB N \ Centra I X Y Ste 6**pr Norf A W pf • I’enn ft K . PhtlaCo 6 pf n West t’nlon Youu; 6 A W
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.