Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 5, 1931; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
By Bichard E. Edmondson
subpast
During the heavy selling e£ the industrials and utilities, following Great Britain’s abandonment of the gold standard, a sustaining influence was afforded the general market by the persistent steadiness of the railp. Consequently, Friday’s penetration of previous resistance levels by pivotal carrier shares exercised a depressing influence on speculative sentiment.
Stocks which experienced the greatest losses in Saturday’s further declines in railroad division were shares that remained in the 5100 class. Atchison sold off sharply, reaching a new low since 1924. Union Facific broke below its bottom price of the 1919-21 deflation, reaching levels not touched since 1917.
New lows on the current movement were reached by New York Central, Baltimore 4fc Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Chesapeake & Ohio, and the whole carrier group displayed a heavy tone. While pivotal industrials displayed temporary resistance to the disturbing action of the rails, the support for stocks of the latter class gradually weakened. During the last hour. Steel, Bethlehem, Westinghouse Electric, and other industrial leaders broke to new lows for the major decline, and reactionary tendencies picked up momentum throughout the list.
Bethlehem Steel Preferred
Bethlehem Steel preferred suffered a stantial decline about the middle of the _ week, when necessitous liquidation found the market thin with blds limited. As soon as support made its appearance the stock scored a spectacular recovery. The decline caused discussions regarding the safety of the dividend. Bethlehem Steel has been feeling the effects of business depression and earnings recently have been poor. However, the company is in an exceptionally strong financial condition, rich in cosh and a continuation of the current rate of business for three or four years would not put the preferred dividend in jeopardy.
Trading Sentiment Confused
No little disappointment was occasioned in bullish quarters by the failure of a vigorous rally to develop from the indications of a selling climax presented by the increase in volume of dealings to 3,200.000 shares on Wednesday, and ' to 3,600,000 shares on Thursday. Fast performances in the successive phases of convulsive ‘ liquidation over the last two years suggested . that this expansion in activity was sufficient to : clean up the necessitous selling immediately ; overhanging the market, and form the base for a good-sized recovery.
When a definite selling climax had taken place in the primary downward movement from the highs of September. 1929. it was immediately translated into a sustained advance, running from three weeks, as happened from June 2 to June 27, lost, to as long as five months* upturn from November 13, 1929. to April 24, 1930. Hence, the fact that price movements have been sc irregular since the volume rose above 3,000,000 shares for two consecutive sessions has impaired the theory that this development represented a genuine selling climax. Moreover,
acad-
the
E.
Friday’s decline in the principal railroad stocks carried the Dow-Jones compilation for this department to new low ground for'the major decline.
This situation illustrates the difficulty of determining when a temporary halt of the liquidating movement win be seen under the abnormal conditions currently prevailing.
While American securities have obviously been placed on the bargain counter by the drastic declines arising out of the international disturbances, the inability to gauge when pressure will be lifted, is restraining the investment cumulation which ordinarily would take vantage of existing opportunities.
OU Trade Stronger
A factor of underlying improvement in oil industry is the reduction in inventories.
B. Reeser, president of the American Petroleum Institute and of Barnsdall Corp., finds the industry's statistical position strengthened as a result of withdrawals of oil from the cumbersome storage on hand. The U. S. Bureau of Mines reports show that during the first eight months of this year withdrawals of crude oil from stocks totaled 30,350,000 barrels, against 6,134,000 barrels in the same period of last year. In the space of 20 months from January 1, 1930, crude storage has declined 50,119,000 barrels, totaling 378,326,000 barrels on September 1, this year.
’•These figures may be taken to indicate that the statistical position of the industry vastly is improved, as reflecting efforts made by several oil-producing states, as well as by the industry itself, to remedy admitted ills." says Mr. Reeser. "Of course, the shutdown of Texas and Oklahoma oil fields under martial law necessitated use of storage oil. but to my mind the declaration of martial law itself was one cumulative effect of continued efforts by oil producers and conservation authorities to achieve some degree of rational operation and promote the cause of conservation.
"Curtailment of drilling operations, another effect from the same cause, also has been beneficial. I am inclined to think a new day is dawning in the oil producing states and in the industry, and that never again will valuable petroleum resources be so recklessly exploited and wasted."
Loan Deflation Rapid
"The heavy liquidation of stocks and bonds that has come into the New York market since the first of March, with no important interruption except during the Hoover moratorium rally in June, has been accompanied by a large decline in total security loans," says Jackson Brothers. Boesel & Co. "In January these loans amounted to, roughly, $8,000,000,000 and at that time Albert H. Wiggin, chairman of the Chase National	appearing before the sub-com-
mittee of the Senate banking and currency committee, expressed the view that these would decrease to around the levels of 2926.
"Following the March, 1926, stock market break, total loans receded to $6,500,000,000, the lowest of that year. On September 23. 1931, total security loans had receded to $6,692,000,000 and with further stock market liquidation since that date it is probable that loans are now around the $6,500,000,000 level. While further scattered liquidation may still be encountered, we adhere strongly to the new that by far the great bulk of necessitous liquidation has passed, as total security loans are now only about half the $13,205,000,000 reached at the end of September, 1929.**
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.