Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 5, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
a ttoiiming that the advance in the stock market could not be maintained lor two consecutive days, the bears started supplying the list in the early dealings yesterday. For this purpose they selected for pressure some of the issues which had been weak-features on numerous occasions recently. There was a consistent demand, however, and before long it was evident that the selling was meeting more resistance than in a long while. Finally, short covering was under way on a heavy scale and increased as the session progressed, with the result that substantial upturns were recorded. The demand was particularly active in stocks like Case, Westinghouse and others which have been the outstanding targets for bear attacks in the past. Offerings were not large on the upturn, though considerable profit-taking by interests who had purchased leading issues during weakness on Monday took place.
Commission houses reported that outside buying was materially larger and conservative observers were advocating the accumulation of a long position before the end of the first hour when it was evident that the market was moving ahead in good shape. .After the close they recommended protection of these purchases with stop orders somewhat above the lows of Monday. Clients on the side lines were advised to be prepared to pick up leading issues on reactions if the upturn shows further ability to carry through.
Traders Bought On Balance
Professionals and floor traders were active They tested the market during the first hour with offerings and later turned to the buying side to cover shorts. These operators purchased on balance. Commission houses reported more business than in many weeks. While there was a sharp increase m outside buying the higher prices attracted profit-taking and liquidation and the leading firms sold on balance.
Jxxiking Ahead for Further Bally
Many interests are looking forward to a further rally. Their belief is that the market should reach bottom some time einy this month, if it has not already done so. A recovery would be a normal development until about the time when second quarter earnings reports arc due. Then another reaction with a double, bottom in August is not outside the range of possibility. Not all stocks will make their lows simultaneously. and for that reason discrimination is urged in making selections when a rally appears imminent. This is the long range vi*wv and one which seems the most popular in the financial district currently. It is pointed out that the market rarely has suffered such a severe break without staging a substantial recovery before selling was renewed.
Watching for Sign of	.
Stabilizat ion
The persistent selling in the past few weeks baffled many in Wall Street. Many, however, are now watching for some definite sign of stabilization when a base could be established for a -subsequent recovery. ^This would come after the short interest has been covered to a good extent.’ The first sign of stabilization normally would appear in bonds and the rail shares.
Rail Liquidation Discouraging
One of the most discouraging developments during the selling waves of the past few months was the liquidation of high-grade railroad shares. Much of the selling originated with investors who had been carrying stocks for a long time. It was much less necessitous than many believed, but -clearly indicated the uneasiness among holders Many disposed of their holdings regardless of the price received or the values the future assured. The continued shrinkage of values of rail holdings was the outstanding influence in the general liquidation. The carriers’ decline raised doubts in the minds of investors in other securities and this prompted the wholesale selling. A number of the stocks sold came out of the strong boxes. Many of these had been purchased years ago at low prices, so that in some • instances profits were made despite the big drop ! from the highs of 1929.
j Ixmn Margin i Lowered
i Reduction in the loan margins inaugurated by the Guaranty Trust Co , and followed by I other leading Wall Street banks, is viewed as i a definite indication that the larger financial I institutions consider prices of many of the >ari-I ing stocks as at levels rendering unnecessary ! so great a margin as previously.
’ Outside Short , Covering	(
i Short covering by outsiders has been quite ' extensive at times in the current week. It has
been noted that when the market has displayed a tendency to move ahead outsiders, who had been playing the short side day by day, scampered to take in their commitments. This covering was an Important factor in bringing about sharp advances In various stocks.
V. S. Steel Corp’s. Past Record
Observers recall that United States Steel made a good record In post-depression periods of the past. In 1921 and 1929, when only $2.24 and $2.84 a common share, respectively, were reported, the $5 annual dividend rate was maintained. Then in 1923, when the depression had ended definitely, earnings mounted to $16.42 a share. It is contended that the Steel corporation will again stage an impressive recovery in revenues when conditions change for the better. Economies and greater efficiency which should follow the latest depression will be reflected in the results of future years.
American Can Co. Supported
Support came into. American Can when other stocks turned reactionary early this week. While the source of the buying is not definitely known, market interests assert that the orders came through houses often prominent on the long side. A good sized short interest is present in the stock which could be forced to cover if the general market held firm and Can reestablished its logical position among the leaders.
John* Manville Well Bought
For more than a week there hits been increasing buying in Johns Manville which has been reflected in the issue’s market action. Shorts who entered the market to cover commitments found offerings limited, since necessitous liquidation ended more than a week ago. The buying was credited in part to certain banking interests well informed on the company’s affairs.
Mack’s Earnings
Increased
Earnings of-Mack Trucks in April and May were sufficient to offset loss of $178,000 incurred in first quarter and put company in the black. Mack is one of the issues which has been selling at an unusually low price when compared with its net quick assets per share. Eventually, stocks of this type should again attract outside buying because of the companies’ strong financial position.
Texas (Sulf Sulphur Position
At the recent low price of around $29 a share, the market value of Texas Gulf Sulphur's 2.540.000 shares was approximately $75 000,000. It is understood that the company has surplus stocks of sulphur-above ground with a value of about $50,000,000, in addition to $7,000,000 in cash. Cost of producing this surplus of sulphur has already been charged against earnings. Shipments of the product in the current quarter will compare favorable with the first three months this year.
Turn in National Caah Register .	- .
That there has been a turn in the earnings of National Cash Register has been indicated by the showing of the past two months. Not only did results in April offset the loss of $373,183 in the first quarter, but May also has made a good showing and the company now is running :n the black. Although dividends on the A stock , have been omitted the issue is cumulative and 1 this has been a factor in bringing long range buying into the stock around recent levels.
How They Stand
Earnings reports as compared with those for the corresponding periods of a year ago. and dividend announcements as compared with the previous ones of leading companies follow.
Since	Additions		
	April 11 Yesterday	
Increased earnings ...	.		201 1
rnrninys				. 729	1
		
Unchanged	dividends		. 781	35
Tnrrpflspd dividends ......		.	13
Decreased dividends			.	92	6
rft t.’idnnHc				.	67	4
High and lx>u Prices		
Thursday on	the New York	Stock Exchange
six stocks made	new highs and	33 new lows for
the year 1931 or longer.		
	New Highs	
Ala*kra.1tinrran	I Bkm X Q Tr	] Nnt I.rrail pfA
I.k A W	I 1’ubSBAG 5pf New Lows	1	ir’nSATni ct
Alitimucli T.’rf	Bo«lon X Mr.	IHtlra Ter C pf
Am ISankN pf	Ch A N W pt	1’lttra A W V*
Am t'Al pfA	< ruelhlr stl pf	t’ittaton Co
APA1. pfA Btn	Genl’rtlnk pf	KG S% pf
Am '“trrl K pf	Iliimll M rat ch	Beni Silk flow
Am Ti pc F”«!v	klAmlt W pf.	Itmil’Kt nil 1 »>f
Anticon IX Ire	I.Ink Belt ( «».	Sprnr X Co
Atlantic Gulf	.Mnt<> .Mr GAK	thirM.it <» nf
Il il«| m In ! pf	N««h C X S 1.	%ra-< nr Cli €pf
n-iit x o i>r .	I*rt .Milk .	i Uabn*li pf A
Beth S(t pf .	I’jrri r Arr pf	1 Tel Trk pf . .
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.