Favorable Start: Year Begins with Bull Demonstrations in Stocks Favorable Start Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 3, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
J^ear Hegins with Hull Demonstrations in Stocks
Free from the influence of the heavy tax selling: which marked the final stages of last tyear, stocks developed an improved tone in the initial 1931 session. Grain markets also gave a better performance. July wheat rallied over three cents a bushel, while gains exceeding three cents took place in corn prices.
Advancing tendencies on the Stock Exchange were given impetus by the appearance of large offerings of call funds, representing the return flow of yeaT-end interest and dividend disbursements. After renewing at 3r; , the demand rate dropped first to . and then to	Latter
was the lowest level reached since September 29, 1930.
This development increased hopes of a January rise in the market, and active demand came into representative stocks throughout the list. Urgent covering was started by the stimulating behavior of pivotal issues, and the forward movement picked up growing momentum during the middle of the day.
• • *
Standard of New Jersey led a brisk demonstration in the petroleum group, which was Continued on Fourteenth Page
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Favorable Start
Continued from First Faffs helped by an increase in bulk £iasoline prices on the Atlantic seaboard. -After -an irregular performance during the morning, the principal industrials swung into a fairly uniform advance, which carried Steel, General Electric, Westinghouse, and American Can to the best levels of the movement. High-grade rails also were in good demand, with Atchison. New York Central and Baltimore & Ohio up substantially from their final 1930 prices.
Automobile shares displayed group strength. General Motors pusbed into new high ground for the present advance, while Chrysler and Nash were active at the best levels of the movement, and Auburn staged a characteristic uprush. Persistent demand continued In evidence through the afternoon, and the day's best prices were generally registered during the last hour.
• * •
Stocks began the new year disclosing full consciousness of the economic perplexities remaining to be solved. Having staged a year-end demonstration of confidence in the longer future on Wednesday, the principal shares showed a disposition in the early dealings to weigh the factors of more immediate influence. These-were found to be mixed.
Abundant credit at low rates, a generally high level of dividend yields, and the drastically deflated position of security values and brokers* loans favored the constructive side. On the other hand, continued weakness in commodity prices, the difficulty of foreseeing when business improvement can be expected, and the prospect of uninspiring 1930 earnings statements tempered enthusiasm over the bullish items, and obscured the market outlook.
* * •
Abrupt easement in the demand loan market at the start of the new year increased the expectation of a period of extraordinarily low credit rates in coming months. Recent action of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in estbalishing the rediscount charge at 2%. the lowest rate on record, furnished powerful evidence that the dominant banking interests felt that the greater part of the necessary deflation had been accomplished, and that the time had arrived to furnish every inducement to business revival.
Prospects of exceptionally comfortable credit conditions stimulated active demand for highgrade bonds, and the flow of funds into securities of this class was expected to pick up increasing volume during January and February. Pressure on the bond market resulting from bank failures has lightened, largely eliminating the principal explanation for the heaviness in this department last month.
In connection with the annual New York Show, which opens Saturday, Frazier Jelke & Co. state: “In recent years anticipations of a rise in motor stocks during show week have been dissipated by the prophetic pessimism of assembled motor company executives. This year the automobile world comes together with n feeling that almost any change that may take place in the trade would be for the better. A large number of new models are to be introduced, and there is likely to be more of an attempt to create atmosphere than at any annual show m the last five years.
“For this reason, we think the Auto Show is likely to be an important market factor, and it is our inclination to recommend trading purchases in the automobile group. We like Nash, Hupp, Hudson. Chrysler, Studebaker, and General Motors. Good automobile accessory issues, such as Stewart Warner, Borg Warner, and Electric Auto Lite, should participate in any upward movement in the motor group. If there is any need of stressing the liquidated state of the automobile share market, it may be pointed out that seven of the more representative motor stocks now are appraised in the stock market at less than $2,000,000,000, compared with a high of $5,284,000,000 on November 30, 1928.’’
Selling of Allied Chemical and Mathieson Alkali was occasioned by the price war which re-centlv broke out in alkali and similar products, including caustic soda, and soda ash. Soda ash, * which is an important product of both com- i panics, recently sold as low as 70 cents a hun- | dred pounds, against previously quoted price of ( $1.32 a hundred. Earnings of Mathieson will be ' affected by the new basis in 1931. Mathieson earned $2.26 a share in the first nmc months of 1930. Allied Chemical, with a wide diversification, will be less influenced.
• • «
“The thoughful cannot but be impressed with the similarity between the cut in the Federal Reserve rediscount rate to 2% in the current period of over-pessimism, and the rate increase to 6% in the frenzied optimism of August, 1929,’’ says I-Iornblower A Weeks. “The , rate increase at that time did not terminate the | bull swing, but it certainly proved to have been 1 a belated storm signal. Conversely, we feel that this latest move on part of the Federal Reserve will anticipate a reversal in the trend of security prices by a similar period, but, of course, the recovery will be gradual and tedious compared to the dramatic collapses of the last year and one-half.
“The extent of the deflation of security values on the New York Stock Exchange, as measured in actual dollars and cents, has reached the amazing total of $40,241,000,000. This total is arrived at by taking the value of all listed common stocks September 1, 1929, as published by the Stock Exchange, at $81,523,000,000 and adding to them the cash value of rights exercised during the intervening months,' and the market value of new common stocks at their date of listing, which totaled $4,348,000,000 up to December 1. As of December 1, 1930, tho value of all listed common stocks amounted to only $45,630,000,000. At the same time, statisticians estimate contraction of prices on the New York Curb Exchange amounted to $15,000,000,000.
• • •
“Although the volume of security deflation is unprecedented in economic history, the deflation in brokers* loans, which amount to less than one-quarter of their 1929 highs, has been even more precipitate. As of December 1, the total brokers’ loans, as reported by the Stock Exchange, amounted to only 4.0G% of the value of^ all listed stocks, as compared with a high ratio of 9.82% In 1929.
“The December market, as measured by the Dow-Jones averages, showed a 12Va% decline up to Monday's closing, which, based on comparable percentage declines in November, would indicate a further shrinkage in security values of nearly $4,000,000,000. .In the last month, fear has replaced confidence, when Wall Street is obviously sold out. In proportions comparable only to the over-optimistic buoyancy of the third quarter of 1929 when Wall Street assuredly was over-bought. The oversold condition of Wall Street indicates technical strength in the market of very considerable proportions, which is bound to make itself felt in the not too distant future. Therefore, we fell safe In predicting that the first quarter of 1931 will be marked by at IcaM a substantial Intermediary recoveiy movement."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.