Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 22, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Ey liichard E. Edmondzcm
Following’ the extensive recoveries from the recent lows, trading in the main body of stocks settled down into a comparatively narrow range at the start of the new week. Evidently the market had reEnquisbed some technical strength as a result of its vigorous rally, and this factor was translated into irregular, uncertain price movements.
Reactionary tendencies which developed in the principal vehicles in Saturday's late trading were again in evidence in the early dealings. Renewed selling appeared in the steel shares on estimates in the industry that operations would drop to around 20% of capacity during the year-end period of inventory taking.
Steel common was -in large supply, experiencing a good-sized setback from its high on the rebound. However, initial recessions in leading stocks generally were followed by a firmer tone as the morning progressed.
* * *
Indications that organized support was con* tinuing in the bond market exercised a reassuring influence on financial sentiment. With bonds maintaining a greatly improved tone, stocks were in. demand on setbacks, and the rally was resumed in many sections of the list around noon.
Particular importance was attached to the ability of various pivotal shares to improve on last week’s highs. Among the representative issues in this class were General Electric, and du Font. Rails also were accorded special buying, and leaders like New York Central, Atchison, and Union Pacific rose above Saturday’s final prices.
Further Tax Selling	'
However, buying was cautious about following prices upward, and fresh irregularity cropped out during the afternoon on further selling to register losses against 1031 income taxes. Liquidation of this nature was especially heavy in the petroleum group. New lows for the year were reached by Standard of New Jersey and Royal Dutch.
Unsettlement in the share list was heightened by declines in wheat prices on disappointment over the government figures on acreage reduction. General declines from, the day’s highs took place in American Telephone. Allied Chemical, American Can. Steel and other leaders While the volume lightened as prices sold off. the general list continued nervous and uncertain through the last hour.
Congress Impressed
This year it Is felt that the chances of gradual extension of the recovery are improved by the outlook for constructive developments that will exercise a favorable influence on public psychology. Congress is believed to have been impressed by the critical economic situation, and is counted upon to hasten emergency measures like the Reconstruction Finance Corp, and the proposed Home L-oan Corp.
A better understanding of the position with regard to the German short term credits as a result of the testimony of Mr. Lamont and Mr. Mitehell has created greatly improved conditions in the market for bank shares, which previously had been a source of disturbance in f+ecurity markets generally. Railway bonds have responded to the practical solution of railway credit difficulties, and prospects of better action on part of the whole bond market from reinvestment demand affords relief for a situation which was probably the chief cause of the depressed sentiment recently prevailing in the financial community’*
Growing Interest in Silver
°Wc note a growing public interest in silver as evidenced by the persistent agitation for an international silver conference, designed to give greater importance to the white metal in the monetary systems of the world.” says Jackson Brothers. Boesel & Co. "We believe that substantial appreciation in silver prices is in prospect. and that this movement will also affect favorably the securities of leading silver producers, and the securities of companies possessing large amounts of inventory m the form of silver.
“Probably the most important factor warranting this deduction is the prospect that silver must be reintroduced into the world’s monetary system m increasing amounts to correct the dislocation resulting from the economic depression and from the withdrawal of some twenty-five nations from the gold standard. The United States and France now own about four-fifths of the gold of the world. Over half of the world’s population uses silver primarily as its monetary medium. AVe do not contend that the United States and France should also withdraw from the gold standard. On the contrary, it should be the desire of all nations to revert to the gold standard.
Stocks In Demand on Setbacks
Irregularity which developed in the principal
trading stocks following the sharp rallies toward the end of last week was regarded as a normal technical development, it largely reflected liquidation of stock bought for support purposes during recent period of pronounced weakness, and profit-taking by nimble traders who had sensed the imminence of a trend reversal.
However, setbacks occasioned by selling of this kind attracted considerable buying from interests expecting further advances into the new year after the market had consolidated the gains of last Friday and Saturday. It was recalled that eight out of the last nine years had brought advancing prices in the closing weeks of December.
Both in 1929 and 1930 the year-end liquidation was followed by sudden recoils such as took place last week. In both the two years, the upswing was resumed into January after the. initial rebounds had been digested in a period of irregular price movements.
In December, 1930, the first warning of a change in trend came on December 17. when industrials used in the Dow-Jones ac rages staged an uprush of S.09 points from 157.51 to 165.60. Subsequently, the principal industrials settled down to 160.16 on December 29. From that point the industrial average advanced to 194 36 on February 24.
50% of Stock Under $10
Many capitalists who were looking askance at the market when prices were soaring on a wave of public speculation in mid-summer 1929, have recently been accumulating representative stocks that appear to be in a thoroughly deflated position. A measure of the sweeping readjustment that has taken place over the last 24 months is afforded in the fact that around last week's lows slightly more than half the stocks listed on the Stock Exchange were selling below $10 a share. Approximately 30% were available under $5 a share.
In contrast to the latter situation, only 2.6% of listed shares were selling under S3 a share in September. 1929. In the latter month. 29% of the stocks on the big board were selling above $100 a share, while a recent compilation shows that the stocks remaining in this Category had dwindled to 2.5%. While it is felt that some further adjustment will be seen in various sections of the market in coming months, existing price levels, and the tremendous reduction in brokers' Ioans, are taken to indicate that the bulk of the de-
• flation has been accomplished.
Hershey’s Profits Margin Sets Record
Decision by the Hershey Chocolate management to increase the common dividend to an annual rate of S6 a share, from the present $5 basis, caused a spurt in the common stock to new high levels on the current movement. Hershey preferred also firmed up on news that the usual extra dividend of $1 a share on this issue would be authorized at a meeting later this week.
Hershey’s generous dividend policy is a reflection of the company’s outstanding achievement this year in increasing its margin cf profit to the highest levels on record. Due to increased efficiency, and steadily declining prices for sugar and cocoa beans, its principal raw materials, Hershey has been able to carry to profits account for the last several years a mounting percentage of gross. In 1930, its profit for every dollar of sales amounted to 21 cents, compared with 19 cents in 1929, and 17 cents m 1929.
With sugar and coca selling at the lowest prices in history in 1931. the showing in this respect has unquestionably been bettered. This is demonstrated by the fact that sales in the first nine months of the year dropped to $23.459,130. against S2P.S31.069 in the corresponding 1930 period. Notwithstanding this shrinkage in gross, the balance for the common stock expanded to $7.51 a share, against S6.61 a share in. the first nine months last year. Present indications are that the balance for Hershey common for the full year 1931 will be well in excess of $9 a share, justifying the management's determination to increase disbursements to common shareholders.
Cigarette Estimate More Favorable
Estimate in the Street on cigarette consumption in November arc’now more encouraging than those made early last week. The gov-l ernment's report, to be issued shortly, is now expected to show a decline of something over 100,000,000 cigarettes from November, 1930, which would compare with a drop in October of nearly two billion cigarettes. Compared with last year, it is anticipated the drop will be slightly more than. 1%. This would be less than the decline in consumption of cigarettes in the first 10 months of the year, which showed a drop of about 4.5%.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.