Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 29, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
By Richard
E. Edmondson
Nothing happened in the news developments during the threeday suspension of trading" over Christmas and the week*end to	the
acter of the influences affecting* stock prices. With only* three sessions remaining to register losses agadnst 193Z income taxes in the regular way, since Thursday’s transactions of this nature must be on a cash basis, further heavy tax selling came into the market yesterday.
Substantial year-end liquidation caused a material increase in the turnover as compared with the pre-Christmas session. Any doubt as to the character of the selling was dissipated by the appearance on the tape of numerous blocks in uneven lots, which demonstrated that many people had postponed their tax loss registrations to the final week of the year.
Tinder persistent pressure of this kind, new lows for the major decline were reached by American Can, Westinghouse Electric, Bethlehem, American Telephone and other pivotal shares. Extensive declines from last week’s highs took place in active stocks throughout the list, and the whole market worked gradually lower during the first four hours.
In view
of it to
*	Business Reports Uninspiring
* Reports from commercial and industrial centers were generally unfavorable, colored by the customary slowing down during the period of inventory taking at the y4ar-end. With the business news uninspiring. Wall Street was looking ahead to various measures for emergency assistance to general trade,
the low rate of activity currently existing, was felt that little stimulus would be needed start some pick-up early next year.
A steadier tone cropped out in the main body of stocks during the last hour after Steel common had made a stand at the year’s low of 36. When Steel refused to break through its previous resistance level, the selling pace slackened. and slight recoveries from the day’s lows were staged in various sections of the list.
Recent Support Points Watched
With many stocks in new low ground
the major decline, and the Dow-Jones industrial average within striking distance of its previous resistance level of 73.79, established December 17, leading observers attached considerable siflnificunce to the character of the nearby support. It was recalled that at no time in the present century, when the market reached its low for the year in December, had the bottom prices been seen in the final week of
for
of if
the year.	x
Consequently, it was feared that the chances a January rise would, be materially weakened the precedent in this respect should be violated by a dip at this juncture below the levels
of December 17. On the other hand, the appearance of effective buying in the next few days would be welcomed as an indication that the foundation was being built for a better market in the earlier stages of the new year.
Last year, pivotal industrials reached the 1930 low of 157.51 on December 16. rallying to 169.42 on December 20. But fresh irregularity was created by belated tax selling, and the industrial average dipped to 160.16 on December 29, prior to the upswing which carried it to 194.36 on February 24.
Reinvestment Demand Expected
January advances in the main body of stocks usually derive their chief impulse from the reinvestment of year-end dividend and interest disbursements. Such distributions for January. 1932. are estimated at $997,935,000. In view of the many dividend reductions this total naturally represents from a year ago. amounts to only $117,000,000.
Replacement of security income into new investments will undoubtedly be retarded by the general desire for liquidity, and the strained credit conditions in various parts of the cuun-
However,
and omissions, some decrease the reduction
try. But the fact that American investors will come in for close to $1,000,000,000 in the next few weeks is a factor that cannot be overlooked as a market influence. Experienced analysts feel that it is bound to make itself felt unless the principal stocks display an unexpected degree of heaviness before 1931 drags to a close.
Bond Action Affords Encouragement
In view of the fact that stocks were under the influence of year-end factors of a non-recurring variety, considerable attention was paid to the action, of bonds on the theory that their price movements would afford a clue to the immediate outlook for security markets generally, b«To little encouragement was derived from the way bonds were able to absorb heavy tax selling, and to withstand the unfavorable effects of a break in government obligations to new lows for the year.
Pressure on goverament bonds reflected uneasiness over the possibility that large scale Treasury financing of a semi-political character might be forced. According to Washington observers, however, reports to this effect have been greatly exaggerated. Meanwhile, rising yields in government issues have attracted extensive investment buying from funds seeking lucrative employment and maximum safety. This movement has been increased by reason of the fact that all the savings banks in New "York, with, one exception, have now reduced the interest paid on deposits to 3Vs or 4%.
Financial sentiment was greatly assured last week by the recovery in bond prices, in four days, of 2Sr^ of the preceding downward movement, which extended over a period of more than a month. Continuation of relative stability in bonds would soften the depressing effect of left-over liquidation in stocks, and create greater confidence regarding the outlook for the security markets in January.
Emergency Measure* Attract Attention
’’Action by the President and his advisers, designed to speed up the reconstruction plans already introduced into Congress, has been favorably viewed by financial authorities, who are of the opinion that, if some satisfactory measures can be made available shortly after the holidays, it will ward off fears of undue pressure on the railroads and other corporations who are now on Che nn-rinne seat with respect to maturing obligations.” says Henry Clews & Co. “’Such legislation was tried with excellent results following the war.
•’Restoration of confidence and the accompanying reduction of pressure upon debtors can easily be attained by. the right kind of management of the new credit corporation: banking institutions that require rediscounting facilities will be immensely strengthened by the adoption of the project now under consideration. The drawback m the case is found in the inevitable delays that occur in most congressional proceedings: but. with assurance that these delays will end favorably the market can await the outcome with considerable equanimity. With definite provision for bank, railway and other institutional aid. when as and if needed, the general tone of things may easily be greatly bet- ( tercd within a short time. Far-sighted in- ! vestors are already looking forward to such an outcome.	{
4 It is significant also that, within the past • 30 days, according to the testimony of experts, there has been a lightening of foreclosures, both in numbers and in amount. According to these observers, there is a distinct disposition on the part of -many persons to adjust themselves to the new conditions produced by the lower value of rent rolls and to bring about economies in management and operation that make buildings better risks. With comparatively little aid in picking up the real estate load, it is believed, the banks and other lenders will be able to overcome in many parts of the country. the symptoms of unsoundness that have been noted of late months ”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.