Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 19, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Bh Richard Id. Edmondson
Stocks yesterday lapsed back into the apa-' thetic state which characterized trading prior I to the international excitement aroused over tne I past week-end by Ivar Kreuger's suicide. Dealings continued fairly active during the first hour when considerable selling came into the ! market for the account of traders who had as-I sumed long lines late Thursday on reports that ! favorable news would be forthcoming from Washington overnight.
When nothing happened to justify,’ rumors, prices in the principal stocks ground sharply under a wave cr'0:’' liquidation. Steel, American
these
gave 24 total, of speculative Telephone
other favorites abruptly relinquished their recoveries. and again sank to the lowest levels of the current reaction.	_____
However, the burst of activity that accompanied Ulis sinking spell subsided toward noon. c .	.	.	___rlnvnlnneo 1T1
mistakable evidence that the Reserve banks are pursuing an active campaign to loosen up the strained position of member banks in the hope that the latter will again become liberal lenders to business.
For three weeks the Federal Reserve has been increasing its portfolio of government securities, last week’s addition having amounted to $25,000,000, not counting the $32,000,000 SDeciaW?reasury overdraft. Holdings of govern-inentsare now $69,000,000 above the February Continued gold influx and steady dc-clines in the volume of currency in circulation and have further supplied funds to member banks, so that the latter are now borrowing $185,000,000 less than on February 17 and nearly S300,-000.000 less than at this time of the 1929 boom.
Reduction of member bank indebtedness is generally considered the first essential step towards' credit expansion. This is due to the -	--- --- -----~ liberal lenders so
as they owe large amounts to the Federal.
*	.	. -	xew York
have been out of debt for two weeks and currently carrying excess reserves. Ten-is for these excess reserves to be put to work, i e. to be used as the basis of an expansion of deposits, loans and investments.
non non rinclmp in currency circula-_	It makes total reduc-
smee February’ 3 $109,000,000 sufficient of the banking
panica cnis summg spell subsided toward noon.
and moderate rallying tendencies developed in	bankers are never
-stocks which had borne the brunt of the garter fact that^bankers are never pressure. But buying showed no < follow up this improvement. and through the middle of the day, creaslngly dull and uninteresting;.
Sentiment regarding; existing: financial conditions was bolstered by indications of gradual betterment in the banking situation. However, I the good feeling over this factor was offset the growing belief that the spring months held forth little promise of any noteworthy increase I _	olnrtricitv output, and car
disposition to the market. , became m-
long -	-	-
The reporting member banks in
City	' ' '*
are deney
! in steel production, electricity output, and
' loadings.
Electric Bond A’ Share Group Heavy
With aggressive buying restrained by certainty concerning business prospects the largely deflated position of the obviating further extensive liquidation.
■ leading stocks moved sluggishly in a narrowprice range during the afternoon. Individual issues wore in supply, with Electric Power A: Eight and National Power A- Eight under pressure following a bad break in Electric Bond A-Share on the curb.
Further good-sized offerings also came .ntc> General Motors, General Electric and I'. Steel preterred 1932.	1........
genera! list out of the a whole maintained 4ts sion drew to a close.
Market Awaits
Although accompanied by a favorable f*irn-mgs statement for February from Chesapeake X- Ohio, and by reports of an agreement betv een private bankers and the Reconstruction Finance Corp, regarding railway financing. Thursd’iv -sharp rally in the principal stocks evident 1\	’
due mostly to technical conditions in the market itself Prices previously ’	’	’	• -
consecutive sessions, att interest. and placing the spond to bullish efforts temporary rc< every.
However, the upturn portant buying and it*5 was revealed when th*s after ingcnt short thing which the rallv indicated, that support for the uul.- around uarv lows v. as st ill in evidence. ' appears likely to lie subject t” : in the immediate future, and the , considerable significance with nearby outlook for the market
Vntil a line can be obtained on the character of the market’s underlying support it appeals ■ likely that the principal stocks will be subjected to frequent periods of irregularity However, so much progress has been mndp during the last two months m strengthening banking conditions, and restoring public confidence that most observers feel any further necessity readjustments m shaie value*5 will he* made in sele'ttxc fashion, with additional outbursts of general liquidation improbable •
Banking Position Further strengthened
Quarterly tax payment dates always result in such large transfeis of funds trial accurate appraisal of last week’s bank statements is ficult. Nevertheless, there continues to be
price range during the afternoon.
1	.	__. »_ IT" I	—
un-and market the
General Electric and I’. S Latter reached a new low for However, nothing happened to shake the rut and the maikct a*-drab aspect as the ses-
Additional Test*
had declined for eight racting a fresh short
Imt in p<» designed
ft esh ilion t'> • r-to start a
The $22,000,000 decline in currency tion needs no comment.
lions	.
testimony that the panicky phase situation has passed.
Borden Co.
Borden Co has displayed a tone since publication a few days report several days ago. At ” was selling at only about 50 h gh of 76’ = . while analysis of the 1931 figures showed that sales had declined only 17 6*', from the previous year, and earnings 25',.
Measured bv tonnage sold, business last year declined only "s', from 1930 Some of the shrinkage in profits was attributed to depreciation of exchange on Canada where Borden is fairlv active
Notwithstanding the unfavorable eondit.ons existing hist year. Borden was able tn strengthen us working capita) position. Latter	°
<13 646 552 as	December 31. 1931
<12 509 753 at the previous year-end. t leaded more than 53 000,000 to a total of all current hab’litics
Oil Companies Adjust Position the encoura.	••
present is t
slightly firmer _ ago of its 1931 that time. Borden • of its last year s
stood at against Cash thin excess
failed tn induce im-spoculatixe ch:”'k*f'r improvement incit'd <> .t covering had MiiK’cIcd. <”’*u . htiwevtf v u : til*' carlv Jiri-T h i«? t e «■>. > t 'i n < *' add J mnal t «•>< t« • < u t c ome bn a r -relation, to the
dif-
un
ag.ng aspects of the oil the manner in which the '--ive adjusted themselves _________	The writing down of m-thc prices which prevailed ill have a beneficial • that prices at the •in. wax « **1 be any lower than r-end. and may be appreciably higher
* ifs. which had such •tatements last year, eliminated
politic** ns a Market Factor
••As the year progresses, politics is experteu to become more anu more a ma: kt I latio: Fiys Liunborn. Hutchings A* Co Republican and Democratic natanal conventions are to nc held in June for the selection of rand. dates wjth campaign.* startmg short!' thereafter At the present time it appears issues will include business cond hibition It is interest.ng to n the single exception of 1920 pr t.on years thus far m the currer. been periods of rising markets
•'In four instances. “ a downward xersed lator 1912 gene .	.
called that in the year 1S96 the i ot Brjsn bv McKinley marked depression started in 1593 ministration is doing everythin; restore some semblance of business i •*n preparation for the coming elec tv
One oi industry at . bulk oi the companies halo current conditions ’ ventones to t...	4
clo^-c of l<u-t year w i •since it is not likely the present year will 1931 year-.--- ---- --
Inventory and other write-' a d’-astje effect on income : should now be practical!
ns a
r pro-r e anc Hut i hi
■ nat k r the startmg
at the effect end of at the
that important itions and pro-sntc that, with •csidential elec-it century ha'e	
1016 and	j P2 j
3 900. 190 J.
trend :n the cany months wa* :e-..... ;n the j car The years 1904. 190=-and 192 1 were each preceded by a \<?ar o: -<dly declining prices It mxh* also be re-
•	------ ... |4tatcd defeat
:he end of a The present ad-g in its power to .mprovement ons '*
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.