Abreast of the Market
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 18, 1932; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
After displaying considerable activity at the best levels of the movement during the morning, leading stocks developed reactionary tendencies. Having duplicated its high of the current advance at 50, Steel common ran into large offerings.
American Telephone encountered considerable resistance in the price range between 134 and 135. Attempts by other pivotal shares to extend their recent gains proved unsuccessful. After failing to push through on the upside, the principal trading vehicles back away from their morning highs, experiencing goodsized setbacks during the afternoon.
Commission houses reported active liquidation by traders anxious to realize profits because of nervousness regarding the stability ol the recent advance. Skepticism in speculative quarters regarding the genuineness of the upward trend also found reflection in substantia] short selling by operators fighting the rise.
In the case of one leading firm with extensive wire connections, the decrease in the number of accounts having short contracts outstanding has been negligible as compared with the situation existing during the middle of last week. At that time, this house had more clients committed to the downside than at any stage ol the 1929-31 major decline. While the *numbex of such accounts was slightly reduced during the upturn of the last •svcral sessions, total contracts outstanding in the short accounts still existing arc larger in the aggregate than they were a week ago.
Similar experience was described by othci Stock Exchange houses. IL was obvious that traders were mindful of the fresh collapses that followed the booms on the Hoover moratorium last June, and on formation of the National Credit Corp, last October.
Accumulation Reported on Setbacks
This state of mind furnished on explanation for the large offerings which greeted advancing tendencies in the principal stocks during the late morning. Under pressure of this kind, pivotal shares worked gradually lower through the middle of the day. and into the afternoon. _
However, the view prevailed in important banking quarters that the broadening of the eligibility provisions of the Federal Reserve Act. which will be provided by the Glass-Steagall bill, has a much better chance of checking deflationary forces than previous steps undertaken to that end. This feeling created pronounced confidence regarding maintenance of the upward movement, subject to occasional technical interruptions It was translated into steady accumulation of the leading stocks on recessions.
Price movements on the Chicago Board of Trade closely paralleled the course of events xm the Stock Exchange. September wheat reached a further new high for the season in the early dealings, while other active months slightly extended their gains to new high levels on the movement However, wheat turned reactionary in the later trading, closing at good-sized losses on the day. Corn sold off with the major cereal.
Aid for Commodities Dhtcwwd
Inherent strengthening features underlying the wheat market recently have been accorded more attention from both speculative and investment interests, despite the world's oversupply of the major cereal. Persistent belief prevails m grain circles that the Administration will shortly turn its efforts to the commodity markets. Wheat should be a particularly receptive commodity, as the young plant, particularly in the southwest winter wheat area, has come through an unusual!;/ open winter without an adequate snowcover for the most part. Cold waves, damage from the Hessian fly and other pests, generally concentrated in the crop scare period, which will be in full blast next month, may make for a more than average winter killing. This would undoubtedly be reflected marketwise.
That the Administration will religiously avoid direct tampering with the commodity markets, via the price pegging method, is virtually a certainty m view of the disastrous Federal Farm Board experiment. While the Farm Board has officially issued a denial of further impending wheat sales to China, strenuous efforts are being made in Washington to impound the government agency’s supplies for an indefinite period, or at least hold off further Farm Board liquidation until wheat reaches a se* level, possibly SO cents a bushel Impounding of the approximate 175,000,000 bushels the Farm Board holds would open an outlet for considerable other domestic wheat and would pair down the record surplus from the immediate market
Otner plans suggested include aid in facilitating exports, through the discounting of pap^r
of institutions interested In this form of export traffic by the Reconstruction Finance Corp. Usage of the Australian bounty plan of awarding a five-cent premium to the farmer for each bushel exported, which was successful In the Commonwealth in disposing of a record 165,-000,000-bushel surplus last season, has also been put forth.
Chesapeake & Ohio Gains
Announcement that Chesapeake & Ohio had purchased the Alleghany Corp.'s block of Fere Marquette common, and secured an option on the holding company's blocks of Erie and Nickel Plate common stimulated an advance in C. & O., which reached a new high on the current upswing. The step by the C. & O. was regarded as particularly significant, in view of the present hearings in Washington on the four-party plan of railroad consolidation. All three roads, under the four-party plan, would go into the C. & O. system.
C. & O. already owned 266,200 shares of Pere Marquette common, carried on the C. & O. books at the close of 1939 at $32,888,996, an indicated cost of roughly $124 a share. The stock purchased from the Alleghany Corp, was taken over at $11 a share, so that the average cost of C. & O.'s indicated holdings now is $106.61 a share for Pere Marquette common.
Virginia Transportation, security affiliate of the C. & O., held 660,200 Erie common shares, and substantial blocks of Erie first and second preferred shares, at the close of 1930. With the C. & O.’s option on 215,000 shares, the road and its security affiliate have between them control, actual or potential, of roughly 58% of Eric common. The Nickel Plate stock under option to the C. & O. Is approximately 49% of the total common outstanding.
Thd new acquisitions of the C. & O. put this Toad in good position to carry out consolidation. if approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission. It can acquire, through exercise of its option, important blocks of two key roads in its consolidation plan at low prices. With any improvement in business, the prices paid would certainly be regarded as bargain prices.
From the point of view of Alleghany Corp., it still retains its interest in Erie and Nickel Plate. Alleghany controls Chesapeake Corp, and the latter controls C. &: O Any appreciation in the value of Erie. Nickel Plate and Pore Marquette shares should be reflected in the value of C. &. O. marketwise, and m the securities of the two holding companies.
American Woolen Preferred
American Woolen preferred was a favorite of buying activities in special stocks, reflecting constructive analyses of the company’s position made by prominent Stock Exchange firms. American Woolen preferred was recommended as a bargain in assets in view of the fact that the current market value of the preferred, and the company s bonds, totals approximately $14,725.000. against cash and government security holdings of $14,603,833. ns of December 31. 1931.
Aggregate current assets at the close of last year amounted to $41.011,05,1. against current liabilities of $241807, leaving net working capital of $40,769,244, equivalent to around $85 a share on the preferred. Cash and government securities alone account for $31 a share on the picferred.
American Woolen reported a 1931 net loss of S2.836.S26. after tuxes and depreciation, against a net loss of $4,897,584 in 1930. However. the view was expressed by interests recommending the preferred stock that the company was in position to show earnings on a scale considerably higher than at any time during the last eight years on any moderate upturn in business.
Steel Awaits Second Quarter
Weekly steel reviews reported an improved tone, resulting from the banking measures being taken at Washington and the announcement ot an early resumption at the Ford plant. However, the trade is reconciled to the probability that any sizable gains will be slow in developing and" the full effect of present constructive steps are likely to be deferred to the second quarter. Ford’s volume operations cannot get under way before late March and no large steel orders have been placed as yet.
A rail mill has resumed operations at Chicago* and slow improvement has been noted in this branch of the steel industry. Other departments have shown no expansion as yet and operations have dipped to 2*S<. from 2S<'< the preceding week.
Recent efforts to strengthen prices will be tested shortly as the auto makers get ready to place contracts for steel. As severe competition evidently will exist in the low-priced cars, manufacturers will attempt to get the lowest possible cost basis on their steel.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.