Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 25, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
• "By 'Richard, E. Edmondson
After slightly extending the declines from last week's highs, stocks developed generally firmer tendencies yesterday. Widespread reports were heard of favorable developments -pending in the foreign situation, and rumors of this char* acter caused some nervousness among the shorts.
Covering operations created a source of demand that was added to renewed accumulation by important interests prominent on the buying side prior to announcement from Washington of the proposed broadening of the Federal Reserve eligibility provisions. With effective support again appearing in the market, a gradually stronger tone developed after a period of irregularity in the early dealings.
Trading continued light in volume, showing additional shrinkage following the pronounced reduction in the turnover in Tuesday’s session. However, the principal activity was on the upside, and this factor was translated into creeping advances in pivotal shares.
Improvement in the main body of stocks was assisted by good-sized gains in wheat prices on advices from western Kansas and Nebraska, indicating substantial abandonment of acreage Active wheat months scored gains running up to	cents a bushel. Corn firmed up in
sympathy with the major cereal, closing about a cent higher on the day.
Rallying tendencies in the share list broadened during the last hour after the grain markets had closed at the best levels of the day. Steel, American Telephone, New York Central, and other leaders extended their recoveries from the lows reached in the early trading. Fairly brisk bullish activities went ahead in individual issues, with Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit, and American Woolen preferred features of outstanding strength.
Credit Contrax'tion Slows Down
Recent substantia! falling off in the number of bank failure* had a favorable effect on the condition statement of reporting member banks of the Federal Reserve K(v».tem for the week ended February- 17. Not demand deposits decreased only $23,000,000, the smallest loss for any week in nearly three months.
Indications that member hanks were beginning io borrow more freely from the Federal Reser\ c were conveyed by an increase of $21,000,000 in accommodations of this character. Government deposits decreased $4.1,000,000, reflecting disbursements from the proceeds of recent financing, a lactor which also helped to slow down the contraction in general deposits.
Figures revealed in tiie latest condition statement were jiarticularij interesting in the light of the Federal Reserve Board survey for January. Member banks In leading cities reduced their loans and investments $550,000,000 last month, affording the principal explanation for the continued reduction in bank deposits.
This decline in loans and investments followed a reduction in these items in the last quarter of 1931, amounting to $1,500,-OOO at member banks in leading cities, and to $1,000,000,000 at other member banks. This decrease compared with reduction of $2,800,000,000 in the two years ended September 30. 1931. It was larger than the entire post-war liquidation of loans and investments. which took place between November 15. 1920, and March 19. 1922.
It vvas the rapid shrinkage that occurred in loans and investments during the final three months of 1931 that aroused the Federal Reserve authorities to the necessity for measures to check the deflationary forces. Some decree of success is shown in the recent slovsing down in the rate of deposit contraction, and many authorities feel that definite reversal of the trend will be witnessed when the Glass-Steagall bill becomes effective.
Brookl.vn-Mnnhattan Advances
Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit common continued the leader of the New York traction shares, moving up to a n^w high on the current advance. Strength in the tractions generally reflected the hope that some constructive development might take place as result of a series of conferences, starting yesterday, seeking a way out of the city’s present transit dilemma.
Strength in B.-M. T. also reflected in part
the good report for the seven months ended January. For the period, the company reported net income equal to $4.28 a common share, against $4.30 a common share for the like preceding period. The company thus covered the full year's $4 dividend on its common stock in the first seven months of its fiscal year with a margin of 28 cents to spare.
Federal Reserve Policy
A confusion of opinion exists at the present time in regard to the policy of the Federal Reserve System. Although the acceptance market is not yet inclined to believe that the local central bank is going to operate heavily in the bill market, nevertheless buying of some bills for its own account, in addition to purchases for foreign correspondents, coincided exactly with an imminent nse in acceptance rates.
An advance in quotations would have been contrary, according to the best-informed opinion, to the desires of the Federal. Whereas some quarters believe that the bank would have cut its buying rates if it really wanted bills, it is elsewhere stated that the bank prefers not to upset the present rate structure or to make changes which might be interpreted in a political light. It is believed, therefore, that the bank is going to take bills for the rest of the week at the prevailing rates, doing so with the cooperation of the market rather than making its action subject to the wrong interpretation.
Reports from Washington persist that the System will eventually launch operations to buy government securities and bills, thus paving the way for rediscount reductions and generally easier credit These reports, emanating from highly regarded quarters, coupled with the bill market situation, are causing considerable comment. The belief is held that the local bank may cut its 3>a% discount charge after the , Glass-Steagall bill actually becomes law. The j chances for a cut this week are slim, however. I since the bill cannot well be rushed through for i the President’s signature without some further delay.
» Glass-Steagall Bill Permissive
The Glass-Steagall bill is largely protective and permissive in character, especially the provision which allows government security holdings of the Federal to be used for note backing, i This provision has not been free tfrom attack i as a departure from the proverbially conservative policies of the central bank authorities, even though it is merely permissive.
i Additional discounting by member banks, invited and encouraged by lower rediscount rates.
- would enable the Federal Reserve to accomplish just what the Glass-Steagall bill would ac-I complish in regard to protecting the gold standard here. Discounted paper available for note coverage at the present time constitutes only about 20CJ- of total Federal Reserve currency, necessitating the employment of 80'‘c in gold to provide full backing.
A substantial increase In discounted paper would release gold from doing this work, just as the Glass-Steagall measure provides The System would thus protect the gold standard by releasing a larger amount of “free" gold, and yet would avoid the criticism possibly entailed in abandoning its strictly conservative policies.
Steel Trade Hesitant
Weekly steel reviews reported no evidence of tangible improvement in business resulting from government efforts to bring about economic recovery. Ingot production slipped another point to 26' r of capacity, Cleveland being the only district to show a gam
However, there are hopes that a belated seasonal recovery will yet take place. In preparation for this a leading producer of bars rhapes and plates has advanced prices $2 a tor. This move follows the stabilizing increases in sheets and strips
The caution of the automobile makers is blamed for the present hesitancy of the steel industry. Ford orders have not reached the mills in significant volume, and potential buyers of low priced cars are unwilling to make commitments until they see the new Ford product Meanwhile, some creeping gains are noted in railroad purchases foR, equipment needs. The carriers are waiting for business to show some upturn before making large purchases but are going ahead with minor improvements now. Building construction is at a low ebb because of the timidity of private capital and enterprise.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.