Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 17, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Vigorous advances in the commodity markets afforded a favorable background for the resumption of bullish operations in the main body of stocks yesterday. September wheat advanced to a new high for the season, while March, May and July attained the best levels of the current movement.
Corn and cotton prices also worked higher following news that the French government, headed by Premier Laval, had been overthrown. This development was interpreted by the commodity markets to mean that the way had been paved for an adjustment of the European debt question. It was also taken to indicate that the French would adopt a more conciliatory attitude toward armament reduction.
Prospects of favorable happenings abroad were bullishly construed on the theory that they would create broader demand for the products of the American soil. With Wall Street watching commodities for a cue to the economic trend, the outburst of strength in grain and cotton was quickly translated into an active buying movement in the share list.
Strengthened by the process of technical correction engaged in during Monday’s session, the principal stocks renewed the upswing Jn vigorous style. Impetus was given to advancing tendencies by President Hoover's statement that hoarding had been checked and that a decrease of $34,000,000 in money in circulaion had been accomplished since the drive to bring funds out of hiding was started on February 4.
Thin Markets in Special Isstiea
Demand for representative stocks steadily gained vigor until the tape was again running behind the market during the afternoon. Steel, American Telephone and other leaders rose to new highs on the movement, surpassing last Saturday’s peaks on active transactions.
With pivotal shares furnishing powerful leadership, buying activities in. special groups and individual Jssucs picked up increasing aggressiveness Light offerings of various issues wore available, and stocks like Union Pacific and McKeesport Tin Plate shot ahead sharply.
Impressive action on part of the outstanding issues encouraged group operations in a number of pool favorites, with the Radio Corp, issues particularly prominent. Advancing tendencies were well sustained, and the day’s best levels were reached during the last hour.
Attitude of Congress Approved
In overwhelmingly favoring adoption of the Glass-Scagall bill, the House of Representatives gave evidence of the strong bi-partisan support for the measure, and the general confidence felt in It an a depression remedy. Increasingly favorable comment has b«»n heard in Wall Street recently regarding the constructive attitude taken by Congress in seeking relief for the existing economic emergency.
It was recalled that when the present session began last December, considerable optimism prevailed In the financial community* regarding prospective legislation. In fnct, it was the first time in many years that the opening of Congress had been welcomed by Wall Street.
This feeling has been borne out by subsequent happenings. Stock Exchange observers haxe been impressed by the commciid-nble absence of partisan strife, and demagog-isni, and hirve become growingly enthusiastic oxer the spirit of cooperation with the Administration that Congress has shown.
Treasury Proposes Additional Taxes
New suggestions made to the Ways and Means Committee by the Treasury Department for increased corporation tax. to 13rr, from 12%. and increase in the federal stock transfer tax from 2 cents to 4 cents, accompanied by a federal tax of 1 cent a gallon on gasoline, and a 7% tax on consumption of electricity and gas. do not take cognizance of proposals now before the Ways and Means Committee for a general tax on manufacturer’s sales The Ways and Means Committee is insistent that the increases in corporation and individual income taxes shall apply only to 1932 income and not be retroactive.	.
The jump in stock transfer tax. taken with the similar increase likely in New York, would double the present tax of 4 cents by making it 8 cents on each share sold on the Stock Exchange. Without the manufacturer s tax the
additional sources of revenue now proposed wil’ fall short of meeting the additional deficit lately disclosed. In view of the close relations between the Treasury Department and Congress, it seems likely that the new proposals will be favorably reported for passage.
Chesapeake & Ohio
Directors of Chesapeake & Ohio conformed to expectations in declaring the regular quarterly dividend of 62 cents a common share at their meeting in Cleveland late yesterday. Chesapeake Corp, also authorized the regular quarterly dividend of 75 cents a common share.
C. & O.’s revenues in January were reduced by a lower coal movement, and results for the month hardly will be favorable. The February showing should be better, as coal movement in the territory served by the southern portion of the C. & O.’s lines has picked up recently.
Balance sheet of the C. & O. at the end of 1931 showed the road had current assets of $22,060,680, compared with current liabilities of $17,128,854. At the close of 1930, current assets, amounted to $36,093,188, and current liabilities $19,356,318. The road had no loans payable at the end of J 931 and cash In the treasury amounted to $3,106,276. Since the year-end. the road has asked the Interstate Commerce Commission’s permission to pledge bonds to make a short-term loan of $9,000,000.
Management of the C. & O. expects to improve its financial position during 1932, with estimates that at the end of this year the road will be m a better cash position than at the first of the year. Expenditures on the road’s tunnel and trackage improvement program in Virginia and West Virginia should be completed by late summer, at least. The improvement program has cost over $10,000,000.
J. C Penney Earnings Gain
Annual report of the J. C. Penney Co. for 1931 will be one of the best issued by any concern in the merchandising field, disclosing earnings for the year about 10r^ in excess of the $2.88 a share reported for 1930. Anticipated net of more than $3.10 a share is noteworthy in that such earnings were realized in the face of a decrease in Bales of 9.9% and an increase m inventory write-offs of 50C<, as compared with the preceding year.
Penney has started the current year in good fashion. The sales decrease for January of 4 5r; was the lowest reported for any month since May, 1930. In view of the fact that Penney has drastically reduced its retail prices during the last year or so, January’s results really represent a good increase in unit volume.
Continued Deflation Hurries Relief Steps
Analysis of the condition statement of reporting member banks of the Federal Reserve System foi the week ended February 10 affords evidence of why the administration determined to push its war against deflation by seeking immediate broadening of the types of collateral eligible for rediscount. Indications that liquidation of bank credit was continuing unchecked were supplied by further reduction of $98 000,000 in time and demand deposits
This decrease came in face of a drop of $63 -000.000 in government deposits. Latter showed that the government was expending the proceeds of recent financing, a movement that would have tended to increase individual deposits had not deflation in this item been setting such a rapid pace.
The reporting member banks, which represent neatly 40' < of the nation's banking resources, liquidated loans to the extent of $114,000.000, and sold $80,000,000 of investments, mostly United States government securities. This further contraction of $194,000,000 in earnings assets furnished striking illustration of the continued inroads being made by deflationary forces. It revealed the urgent need for the emergency relief that will be provided by the Glass-Steagall bill.
When the latter is enacted into law. banks will be freed from the necessity of seeking cash through liquidation since their requirements can be obtained by rediscounting paper not now eligible for surh purposes This situation holds forth the prospect not only of eliminating active pressure on the security markets but of enabling the banks to adopt a more liberal attitude toward fresh loans that would stimulate business revival.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.