Abreast of the Market
Rose, Henry E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 30, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 6
Abreast of the Market
By Henry E. Rose
Bond prices on London market were steady; stocks lower.
Berlin market was lower.
A continuance of liquidation, unfavorable earnings’ reports and uncertainty as io the immediate outlook were factors contributing chiefly to a declining stock market. Many new low levels were established with leading industrial and rail issues giving ground easily.
Among principal stocks to enter new ' jw territory for the current year were American Telephone, United States Steel, Eastman Kodak, Atchison, duPont, General Motors. New York Central and Allied Chemical. U. S. Steel preferred also hit a new low, and sold below 80.
Although progress is slow, the policy of controlled credit expansion by the Federal Reserve banks is working slowly. The banks in the past week again were heavy buyers of government securities, taking $113,000,000, all of short term maturity. It is estimated that a period of about 60 days will be required before the banks' policy is definitely apparent in improving conditions.
In the foreign exchange markets there was comparatively little activity. Leading currencies generally showed a weaker tone as compared with the American dollar. The recent activity in sterling has died down and French francs are steady at well above the levels established earlier in the week when France again threatened to take gold from the United States. Danger of these withdrawals seems to be averted for the time being. Canadian dollars, which were weak foj the past two days, are showing some signs of strength.
Utility’ Shares Performed Well
During most of the trading session the utility shares performed well, although as the downward swing in the general list gathered momentum, they gave ground more easily. The leaders in this group, however, failed to break through their year’s lows.	'
Washington in the Gear Box
New York City banks allowed their loans and investments to decline by $43,000,000 this past week despite the fact that their deposits increased $87,000,000 and that they had excess reserves of $41,000,000 at the start of the week. On April 27 these banks had excess reserves of $154,000,000.
There are reasons for the reluctance of these banks to make use of the funds being put at their disposal by the open market purchases of the Federal Reserve banks: First, due to the enormous expenses of Federal government, far in excess of current revenues, the Treasury this past week announced the offering of $500,000,000 new government securities for May 2. As usual, before heavy government financing, the New York banks are conserving their resources until they know the extent of their allotments to the new Issues. This is part of the explanation of the piling up of excess reserves last week.
Second, the submission of the revised Glass bill on April 22 has made almost all bankers fearful of buying new investments for the obvious reason that under Section 14 of tbe net the purchase of investment securities for the account of banking associations is forbidden except under “such limitations and restrictions as the Comptroller of the Currency may by’ regulation prescribe". (This does not apply to U. S. Government securities nor obligations of political subdivisions.) In other words, tbe banks are naturally hesitant about making investment purchases -..’hich may be declared illegal. To a lesser degree, the backs are fearful of extending security loans, which might be severely penalized by Federal Reserve Board action.
Budget Balancing a Factor
Third, the revolt of lhe House of Representatives as regards budget matters, including Federal economy, has so disturbed confidence that many responsible banks have adopted the attitude they must Increase liquidity in the interest of their depositors. Not only are bankers concerned that an unbalanced budget or passage of the bonus might cause another great exodus of foreign funds, comparable to that of last
autumn, they are disturbed as to tne eventual market value of their holdings of government securities in the event of uncontrolled inflation.
Fourth, the revised Glass bill provides for the divestment of banking affiliates after three years. This would not only force the liquidation of large investment holdings by such affiliates, it would disrupt the most important method of underwriting and distributing new securities. Bankers hold the improvement in the bond market which has rcently started will be of little real advantage In promoting economy if the medium of floating new issues is declared illegal.
Bethlehem Steel President Visions Improvement
Bethlehem Steel shares were less susceptible to reactionary tendencies than other Issues in the steel group. The company's president, following the directors’ meeting on Thursday, commented rather favorably on operations to the effect that indications currently are that "there is no longer a declining tendency in the volume of business." Bethlehem's April volume, he said, was about the same as in March.
The report of operations in the first quarter for Bethlehem was in line with the industry generally, although from a strictly operating standpoint the company earned its Interest charges, whereas United States Steel suffered a deficit
Standard of New Jersey Continues Strong
Standard Oil of New Jersey ran counter to the general market throughout the session, holding up well around the previous closing price. The expectation of the declaration of the usual extra dividend of 25 cents when directors meet on May 2 was a factor favorably influencing market action. In other oil issues, however, there was weakness in consonance with the general market, Houston Oil (the old stock) losing 2% points.
The important test in the present oil situation is the ability to maintain the recent advances in oil prices. The increasing storage of gasoline is not encouraging, the contributing factors apparently being the decline in consumption as compared with a year ago and the increasing imports In anticipation of eventual enactment of a tax on imports into this country, although the Senate finance committee on Thursday voted to drop all tariff items from the revenue bill.
One momentous decision, and possibly two, which will affect the future of control over crude oil production in this country will be made soon. The California citizenship will vote on May 3 in a referendum on the Sharkey bill, and the outcome of this vote will have a decisive effect on the California oil industry. The Champlin Refining Co. case, involving the proration of oil production in Oklahoma on the basis of not merely physical waste but economic waste, Is awaiting a decision by the United States Supreme Court.
Gasoline Consumption Below Last Year
So far as the domestic consumption of gasoline is concerned, it has been less in the first two months of this year than in the corresponding period of 1931. March figures probably will follow this trend. The February figures, according to reports under tax or inspection laws, disclose a decline of 3.43% and a decline of 2.42% for the first two months of this year, from the similar periods in 1931.
These statistics are for the country, as a whole, according to the American Petroleum Institute, although in states along the eastern seaboard some substantial increases in gasoline use occurred in February due to favorable w*eather. As a whole, the consumption of gasoline is holding up remarkably well when contrasted with the experience in other industries.
In the main, net losses after book reserves are being shown for the first quarter in the oil Industry. However, the industry is in far better shape than in the first six months of 1931, when prices and conditions w’ere chaotic. The advance of 15 cents a barrel in crude jgll prices on April 1 by some companies followed soon after by the major purchasers, and the ensuing rise in gasoline quotations have benefited oil companies. Crude oil producers are obtaining more cash revenues, and better product prices have aided the integrated companies.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.