Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 2, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
Indications of an oversold position in the main body of stocks were strengthened at the start of the week by the list’s vigorous response to final agreement on a 10% general reduction in railway wages. Negotiations to this end had proceeded so tediously that Wall Street had expected definite solution of the matter to fall flat as a market influence.
Instead, the news was greeted by a vigorous demonstration of strength in New Yqrk Central. Atchison, Union Pacific, and other outstanding carrier shares. Probably the explanation for this development was the conciliatory attitude shown by the union workers in accepting the cut, which was hailed as marking a new departure in industrial relations. It contrasted strikingly with the prolonged unsettlement that accompanied similar reductions at the bottom of the 1921 depression.
Brisk advances in railroad stocks in the early dealings were followed by broad buying operations throughout the market as the morning progressed. Bullish sentiment was created by the appearance of impressive demand for the principal stocks, and spirited gains to new high levels on the recovery took place in Steel common, Allied Chemical, American Can. General Electric. American Telephone, and Consolidated Gas.
Commodity Markets Stronger
Advancing tendencies an the share list were afforded a favorable background by strength in the commodity markets. Cotton was firmer on continued buying by Japanese interests which has been the mainstay of the cotton market for several weeks.
Wheat staged a further advance on news over the week-end of an extension of Japan’s belligerent activities. While the strength of commodities had its usual influence in increasing demand for stocks, considerable differences of opinion existed as to whether a war between Japan and China would create any important buying of American foodstuffs and merchandise. It was felt that prospects in this respect were obscured by the likelihood of embargoes, and the difficulties the warring nations would have m financing the purchase of supplies in the United States
As a matter of fact, It seemed evident that the upturn* in the principal stocks had more to do with greater optimism regarding domestic prospects than to the war clouds on the Far Eastern horizon Elimination of the uncertainties incident to the wage question in the railway held represented another important stop in the general economic readjustment. The market’s reaction to it bore out recent contentions that existing price levels had overdiscounted the admittedly unfavorable earnings conditions currently existing in the major branches of trade
Standard of New Jersey
Standard of New Jersey staged a brisk rally on declaration of the usual extra dividend of 25 cents a shaie m add.tioa to the regular quarterly payment of 23 cents a share As continuation oi the extra payment had been doubted in speculative quarters, this action was to1.owed by active short covering m the stock.
.Aviation Shares Buoyant
Aeronautical stocks continued to feel the stimulus of the attention called by developments m the Far East to the efi ectiv eness of airplanes m military operations. Exceptional activity at the best levels of the current movement proceeded in United Aircraft. Douglas Aircraft. Curtiss-Wright, and North American Aviation.
Opportunities Sought on Upside Views similar to those which have caused large operators to adopt a cautious policy regarding short selling irre gaining wider ;irccptanct‘ in J*tock E\-” change circles. Most observers now feel that bullish operators are favored by the liquidated position of the market- They argue that greater profits are likely to bo obtain<‘d from seeking storks with good prospects of appreciation over the long-pull
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
than from attempting to squeeze out the last few points on the short side of individual issues.
Januarj' is normally a month of indecision in the stock market. That precedent in this respect was faithfully followed last month was demonstrated by the irregularity and narrowness that characterized price movements. As an illustration, in-dusria^s used in the Dow-Jones averages ended the month at 76.55, compared with a closing level of 77.90 in December.
In recent years, however, February has been a month of vigorously rising prices. Both In 1980, and 1981, February brought extensive gains in the principal stocks. Bearish interests point out that these advances were propelled by wholly illusionary hopes regarding spring business prospects. Since nothing happened to justify these upswings, the pessimists argue that they are unlikely to be repeated this year :us Wail Street is now facing realities with a clearer vision.
On the other hand, the bull forces contend that securities have been so drastically oversold that the groundwork exists for genuine improvement. Prominent private bankers, and Treasury officials alike have insisted that the factor most needed to stimulate business revival is a restoration of public confidence. As nothing is more potent in this respect than the spectacle of f advancing security prices, it would occas- . sion no surprise if the Federal Reserve ef- | forts to check deflation should be supplemented by aggressive bullish sponsorship , for ^representative stocks in coming weeks. -Working Capital Gains Shown
A feature of various corporate balance sheets ■ as of December 33, 1931, is the ab.lity shown; by many companies to build up woiking capital under adverse business conditions United Fruit closed last year with net work mg capttal of $30,515,719, the highest total for any of the last eight years with the exception of 1926 and 1927. Cash holdings totaled $26 072 695. which was larger than at the close of 1930. and also of 1929.
Another illustration is afforded by Sears Roebuck. Batter, at the close of last year, had current assets equal to five times current liabilities, the best ratio in five years Bank loans were reduced to $12,000,000, from $17,000,000 in 1930. Present total compares with obligations of this character aggregating $31,000,000 contracted in 192S and 1929 for retail store expansion.
Best Develops Firmer Tone
Best & Co. was an active feature of the merchandising division, firming up on estimates by interests identified with the management that the company will report net earning^ of approximately $1,000,000, equal to S3 25 a share on common stock, for the fiscal year ended January’ 31, 1932. Such a showing would be regarded as an exceptionally favorable record m view of last year’s decline m mcrchaad.smg values, which affected the dollar volume cf sales, and necessitated inventory adjustments.
In the fiscal year to January 31, 1931. a balance of $4 15 a share was reported for the common stock on a sales volume of $15,097,736. As the dollar volume of business in the latter period was the largest in the company's history. considerable gratification was occasioned by the fact that sales in the II months to December 31. last, suffered a decrease of only ~r,'f from the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year.
, Best Ar Co started the fiscal year just ended with net current asset* of $2 571,34S. Inventories comprised only 37'. of current assets, i People close to the company predict that the balance sheet for the year to January 31. 1932.
' w*ll show further strengthen ng e>t Best’s financial position, with the ehmna’ion of all bank indebtedness, and invent or.lower than a year , ago. although the company is now operating one additiQn.il store.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.