The Markets: Stocks at New Lows on Sales Tax Defeat and German ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 1, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
The Markets
Stocks at New Lows on Sales Taw Defeat and German Cabinet Resignation —Bethlehem Steel and American Tobacco B Weak
pushed toward straightening out the financial! dislocations caused by the wy.	|
Gold distribution, currency stabilisation, and the revision of financial and commerce policies to conform to altered debtor and creditor relationships represent problems still to be faced.
In some respects, great strides forward were made during the nineteen twenties; but the recovery, while spectacular, rested on an insecure foundation. To a large extent. It was made possible by the fact the dislocation of international balances of payments due to war conditions and to the growing creditor position of the United States was compensated for by the huge loans extended by this country to Europe, Latin America and the Far East.
These loans permitted the United States to avoid admitting foreign goc Is and services in payment of foreign indebtedness and relieved foreign nations of the necessity of selling to this country a surplus of such goods and services over the high American tariff barrier. t
Bethlehem Steel Under Pressure
Persistent liquidation in Bethlehem Steel common carried that stock down to a new low level at 7%. There was nothing apparent to explain the special weakness in this issue, other than the unfavorable outlook for the company's business during the summer months. It was felt in the Street that selling in this issue represented belated liquidation.
The company’s operations in the first quarter resulted in a net loss of $3,685,769 as compared with net income of $1,941,962 in the corresponding period of 1931.
Diamond Match Sells $9 Below Book Value Common stock of Diamond Match Co. has ruled relatively stable, the fluctuations thus far in the current year being within 3% points. Around its current level of 12%, it is selling about $9 below book value as of December 31, last, which was set at $21.25, and gave no consideration to the value of the company’s patents or goodwill. The company’s earnings have demonstrated a good degree of stability over a period of years.
During 1931, In the face of the general depression. Diamond’s net income amounted to $2,358,396, or about 3r;f less than in 1930. The finances of the company were in an extremely liquid status, with current assets equaling better than $22 for each $1 of current liabilities. Hold-| Ings of cash and marketable securities alone, of ! $20,364,000, were more than $18,000,000 in exI cess of total current liabilities.
I Cash and its equivalent in marketable securities (consisting of government, state and municipal bonds), accounts and notes receivable i and inventory (raw and semi-manufactured ma; terials and finished goods) aggregated $30,566,' 993. That figure, less total current liabilities— excluding liability to stockholders and reserves : —ofSl ,983.099 (or $28,583,896 net quick assets was and-out-
Bonds and stocks on London market generally lower.
Paris Bourse firm; bank and chemical
■bares especially strong. '
Berlin Boerse irregular on Bruenlng resignation; bonds lower, stocks firm.
Brief rallying tendencies cropped out in an otherwise weak market on the New York Stock Exchange when President' Hoover delivered a message to the Senate urging prompt legislative action toward reducing governmental expenditures, effecting a balanced budget and the necessity for relief measures tn meet the unemployment situation. Before the conclusion of bis message, however, prices turned reactionary and new lows were made by leading stocks.
The President specified that be would favor the general manufacturers* sales tax, for a temporary period, and thought that It should pass Congress. Previous advices from the nation's capitol, however, indicated that any such measure would be defeated, a majority of Senators having gone on record as opposed to that means of providing revenue.
Aside from the unfavorable developments in Washington, the market suffered a blow from foreign occurrences, particularly in Germany, where the Bruening cabinet tendered its resignation over the week end. That move injects uncertainties into the European situation (besides offering possibilities of political disturbances in Germany) coming, as it does, about two weeks before the Lausanne conference.
Among domestic trade developments of an adverse nature was the carloadings report for | the week ended May 21, Bhowing a decline of 31.7% in revenue cars loaded as compared with the corresponding week in 1931, the largest drop thus far reported.
Other Markets Weak
Other principal markets offered no incentive to anj’ improvement in stock prices. In the bond market, United States government Issues were lower, and grain and cotton prices trended downward.	•
As measured by the Dow, Jones* averages, industrial stocks at noon today were down 48% from their year’s highs; railroads were off 64% and utilities 49%. As compared with the highs of September, 1929, industrial stocks have lost about 88%; railroadR about 92%. and utilities about 87%.
Among leading stocks to register new lows in Tuesday's market were American Telephone; General Foods; du Pont; General Electric; Bethlehem Steel; U. S. Steel; Allied Chemical; Consolidated Gas; Public Service of N. J.; Chesapeake & Ohio; Continental Can and Macy. American Tobacco B was subject to selling pressure and dipped to a new’ low of 46%, off 4’i points from the previous close.
Insecure Basis of Post-War Recovery
The European crisis that began a year ago over all direct and operating liabilities), has unquestionably intensified the business de- ; equivalent to the full par value of all cuts: pression throughout the world. Nevertheless,; ing preferred stock and $11.46 a share of industrially and commercially, the world silua- standing common stock, tion would still be better than it was in 1921,!	■*’'	.................
states the Guaranty Trust Co., if some means could be found to sweep away the destructive trade barriers that have been built up in recent years. The prospects for political stability also are somewhat more promising than they were a decade ago. But little has been accom-
Considering all general, protective and applied reserves as active liabilities, the quick assets over all liabilities (except to stockholders) stand at $27,054,085, which is equivalent to the full par value of al) outstanding preferred stock and $10 a share of outstanding common stock.
unnet
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.