The Markets: Stocks Rally Sharply After Early Weakness, With Bonds ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 3, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 6	____
The Markets
Stocks Rally SharplyAfter Early Weakness, With Bonds and Commodities Joining the Advance—Telephone Recovers Substantially
London market generally reactionary; Japanese 6s advance sharply,
Berlin Boerse lower.
Paris Bourse heavy; bank shares weak; German issues firm.
Recognition of the Importance marketwise of the formation of a new stabilization corporation, with important banking support, was given by the securities markets Thursday. Stocks scored substantial advances from the lows set In the early trading, and continued firm to the close, while bonds moved upward on a broad front. Grains advanced, and cotton rebounded $1.25 a bale. The general advance was the most convincing In a long time.
There was little of consequence, marketwise, in news from the nation’s capitol, other than the expressed opposition of Secretary of the Treasury Mills to that feature of the Wagner unemployment relief bill which would provide for a $500,000,000 bontFissue for additional public works.
Foreign developments were inconsequential, the weekly statements of the leading central banks showing little change as against the previous week. Bank of France continued to increase its holdings of gold to a new high and Its ratio of reserves to liabilities disclosed a slight increase. The Bank of England ratio was fractionally lower.
While principal commodity markets were inclined to be heavy in early dealings, rallies cropped out and gains were scored in cotton and grain particularly. In the bond markot United States government issues were Irregular while the remainder of the list rallied on rumors of the beginning of operations by the so-called bond pool. The upward trend in bonds was communicated to the stock list.
Allied Chemical Dividend Prospects
Allied Chemical was weak throughout most of the session and was actively dealt in. The Street continues to believe that when the directors meet next month some consideration will be given to reducing the dividend. While earnings have been substantial it is probable that the $6 dividend is not being covered.
American Telephone &. Telegraph dropped tc a new now on heavy trading but subsequently rallied and scored an advance for the day. The regular dividend was recently declared although earnings currently do not cover rato of payments. The next dividend meeting Is to be held in August. The Bell System continues to lose telephones, and long distance revenues for the parent company have reflected the general Inertia in business. On the other hand, the company continues to gain stockholders and has kept Its balance sheet in a strong liquid condition. Cash holdings of American Telephone & Telegraph exceed $200,000,000,
Kelvlnator Sales Increase 17%
Kelvinator Corp, held steady around 3. In part reflection of the 17% increase in unit shipments in May as compared with the corresponding month in 1931. The relationship of shipments between May and April of this year was also more favorable than in 1931. with April shipments this year being the largest in the history of the company.
Sales improvement in recent months Is due
largely to a conservative increase In dealer and I distributor outlets and tn more Intensified sales effort on the part of these outlets. This policy naturally has been supported by advertising and sales promotion efforts from the factory.
The showing this year is particularly gratifying, states an official, in view of the fact that public utility sales programs this year are unusually late and have only started in most sections. *
Department Stores' Sales Below Lost Year
Shares of leading department stores have been losing ground in recent sessions, reflecting, besides the general market trend, unfavorable business operations. Department stores in the New York Federal Reserve district, which takes In the largest in the country, in April, showed a decrease of 22% in sales as compared with the corresponding month In 1031, and a slightly larger decline than wbb reported in March.
For the first half of May, department stores In the metropolitan area of New York reported practically the Bame decrease in sales from a year ago as in April. Stocks of merchandise on hand at the end of April, at retail valuation continued to show substantial reductions from last year. Collections during April continued to be Blower than In 1931 in all lopalities except Rochester.
The April sales of reporting chain store systems in the New York Federal Reserve district wore about 11% below 1931, a somewhat larger year-to-year decline than has been reported previously. All groups of chain Btores, except candy chains, reported greater reductions in sales than In March, and In the case of the candy group, the Increase was the smallest since last November.
In the case of drug and variety stores, the declines were larger than were ever reported by these types of chains. After allowing for changes in the number of stores operated, the chain organizations generally showed even larger declines In sales per store than in total sales, as the number of stores has still continued to Increase slightly during the post year.
Wefltinghouse to Benefit From Pennsylvania
Flans of the Pennsylvania Railroad Co. to push electrification after approval by the Interstate Commerce Commisison of a $27,500,000 loan through the Reconstruction Finance Corp, should benefit Westinghouse Electric, whose common stock currently 1b one of the strong spots in the market The first instalment of the loan was to begin on June 1.
Aside from this development, however, Westinghouse has been effecting a better ratio between operating costs and sales volume in the past 18 months. Its fiftt quarter report this year, showing a set loss of $1,320,148, while unfavorable, marked a substantial improvement over the corresponding period of 1931 when a loss of $2,885,945 was suffered, the latter on a larger volume of business.
The current financial status of the company, as of December 31, last, showed an improve- * ment os compared with a year ago, assets oe- ’ ing equal to about $14 for each $1 of liabilities. I Cash totaled $20,585,000 and alone was almost ’ three times the total current liabilities.	i
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.