Abreast of the Market
Edmondson, Richard E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 6, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wltibthe industrial, railroad and utility sections of the market In new low ground for the major decline, further progress was made on the downside in yesterday's session. Transactions were reduced in volume by the tendency of many operators to await fresh developments at Washington when the Senate Finance Committee begins hearings on various provisions of the next tax bill.
Although this factor Influenced a slackening of the trading pace, steady liquidation persisted In many sections of the list, and prices worked lower In sluggish fashion, Price movemenu in the early dealings demonstrated that technical conditions bad been impaired by the active covering that took place in Monday's late trading. With the short interest reduced, the principal stocks showed an absence of nearby support, and the rallies from the previous day’s lows were abruptly erased.
UnsettJement was Increased by large offerings of Atchison on the threshold of its dividend meeting. Considerable difficulty was experienced in establishing an opening price for Atchison, but the initial level was Anally fixed at 56, off 5% points from the preceding close. Several substantial blocks changed hands at this figure, which was the lowest touched ^by AtchiBon since 1905.	z
i	Utilities Heavily Sold
After extending its initial recession by more than 2 points, Atchison rallied to its opening level on demand from shorts who engaged in some covering on the unfavorable news of a further reduction in the road's quarterly dividend to 51 a share, compared with 51*50 paid three months ago. Brief rallying tendencies also de-evloped in American Telephone and other pivotal shares following the Atchison announcement at 12:30 o'clock,
However, tbe market succumbed to fresh pressure during the afternoon. Utility issues were in fresh supply, and new record lows were reached by the Electric Bond & Share affiliates, including Electric Power & Light, National Power & Light, and American Power & Light. Outstanding utilities shares like Consolidated Gas, and Public Service of New Jersey broke through previous resistance levels to new lows for the major decline.
Selling became more genera! at the start of the last hour when further disturbing weakness cropped out in Steel and American Telephone. Latter penetrated its January low of 107%, dipping to levels not seen since the culminating stages of the post-war deflation in 1921. Steel common reached a new low on the current reaction following a further bad break in Steel preferred. Latter sold under its 1908 low of 87%, reaching its lowest price since 1907. In the latter year it sold as low as 79%.
Continued Protests Against Transfer Tax
With the Senate due to begin consideration of the new revenue program shortly, protests continued to pour in from the leading financial centers of the country against the proposed increase in taxes on security transfers. John W. Prentiss, of Hornblower & Weeks, summed up the fears entertained in Wall Street regarding the probable influence of placing such a burden on security transactions by calling attention to the fact that stock and bond prices have been declining ever since the La Guardia resolution, approving such levies, had been adopted by the House, on March 31.
"It is interesting to note,’’ Mr. Prentiss said, "that since the passage of this resolution, five days ago, the value of bonds listed on the New York Stock Exchange has declined 51,097.047,618 and the value of stocks in the same period has declined 52,418,969,603. In others words bonds and stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange and owned by life insurance companies, savings banks, fire insurance companies, banks and Individual investors have been deflated in value to the extent of more than 53,500,000,000.
"This sum is greater by one and one-half times than the national deficit which the present revenue tax is trying to correct. It is three and one-half times greater than the total amount of estimated money provided by the Revenue Bill."
Rural Bank Deposits Drop
It is difficult to work up any enthusiasm over the reporting member bank statement as of last | Wednesday. Deflation of credit continues unI abated in tbe city banks. During the past two I weeks total loans and investments of these ini stitutions have declined 5234,000,000, thus practically eradicating the temporary increase of
5283,000,000 given by the March 15 government financing. Ordinarily greater part of the midMarch increase in credit is maintained.
Particularly drastic has been the drop in "all other" loans, which supposedly represent business loans. Since March 2 they have declined 5265,000,000 to 56,885,000,000, tbe lowest ever reported, figures having been available since i 1919, Part of the March decline was due to the payoff of the British Treasury loan. Loans on securities dropped 59,000,000 last week, in con-1 tinuatlon of the slow downward trend of the past few months.	•	:
Time deposits showed a small increase, 55,000,000. This type of deposit has been practically stationary since late February, in sharp contrast to the pronounced decline -of the last two-thirds of 1931. Demand deposits increased 598,000,000 last week, which partly counteracted the ^149,000,000 drop of the preceding week. However, the trend of deposits still appears downward.
In the country banks deposits had been practically unchanged from the end of January up to the week of March 23, judging from their reserve deposits. But last week there was a sharp decline in reserve deposits of rural member banks. Whether this is merely a temporary I fluctuation, or evidence of resumption of deflationary tendencies, cannot be determined as yet.
The Fertiliser Situation
Current fertilizer season is likely to prove one of the smallest consumption seasons In many years. It is estimated that there will be approximately 50% less plant food purchased this season compared with 1930, which in turn was 30% below the 1929 total. This would moan a 65% reduction in the use of fertilizers in 1932 compared with lv29.
During the 1931 season approximately 4,200,000 tonB of fertilizer were used for the cotton belt alone, of which about 2,400,000, or 57%, was used for cotton. In 1919 a tonnage of 8,285,-i 000 was utilized. The factory value of the plant | food has decreased much more rapidly than the tonnage totals. This has gone a long way to demoralize an industry which has suffered more or continuously since 1919 from various causes, i The adversities experienced by agriculture j struck the fertilizer industry with full force in ! 1919 and the latter was left with huge totals of frozen assets. The aggregate losses to the leading companies from this item alone was around 5100,000,000, resulting income cases in receiverships and in practically all instances reorganizations. A few companies escaped the chaos largely because they were doing business in other lines which helped offset their fertilizer losses.
At present most of the fertilizer companies have liquid balance sheets but little or no income. Only by drastic cuts in overhead and in omission of dividends in some cases have the, companies been able to weather their difficulties. An encouraging factor is that inventories are low and that many of the companies have maintained their liquid condition for better days.
First Quarter Earnings Estimated
Earnings of American Telephone in the first three months of 1932 are estimated at 51.85 to 51.90 a share in a compilation of first quarter earnings estimates for 18 leading corporations made by E. F. Hutton & Co. Projecting possible income for the full year 1932, on the basis of the relation that first quarter earnings have borne to complete year results for the last five years, it is estimated that American Telephone's Bhowing for the 12 months ending December 31, next, will be 57.15 to 57.36 a share.
Corporations in this compilation which are expected to report deficits in the first quarter include Bethlehem Steel, Montgomery Ward, New York Central, Pennsylvania. Radio of America. U. S. Steel, and Westinghouse Electric. Pu Pont’s earnings for the first quarter are estimated at 42 cents to 52 cents a share, and for the full year at 51.68 to 52.08.
General Electric's first quarter showing is placed at 20 cents to 25 cents, and for the full year at 83 cents to $1.04 cents. Earnings of General Motors in the first three months of 1932 are figured at 20 cents to 25 cents, and for the 12 months at 77 cents to 97 cents.
While the theoretical inference for the full year appears discouraging, the firm points out that this viewpoint should be tempered by the realization that conclusions so far In advance are usually subject to much future revision. Any small Increase in the gross of these corporations would probably find striking reflection in net, due to economies effected in operating expenses.	|
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.