The Markets: Stock Prices Rise Sharply on Short Covering, Auburn and ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 11, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
The Markets
Stock Prices Rite Sharply on Short Covering, Auburn and J.I. Case Leading the Way with Tremendous Advances
Bonds on London market Jower; stocks Irregular, rubbers and tobaccos steady.
Paris Bourse heavy, particularly rentes.
Reassurances that the Federal Reserve banks would continue their purchases ot U. S. government securities with a view to forcing credit to work, and would maintain excess reserves of member banks around $225 000,000 were partly responsible for a sharp improvement in prices on the New York Stock Ex-change. The rally was the sharpest in many months and gains ranged from 1 to 21 points.
As gauged by the Dow-Jones' averages, stock prices have made substantial recoveries In all groups—industrials, railroads and utilities. At the close on Friday the industrial average stood at' 48.94, an advance of 3.62 points on the day and comparing with the low of 44.74 reached on May 31. Recoveries in railroads brought the average to Friday's close at 16.38, up 1.13 points against Thursday, and compared with the low of 14.10 on June I. The utilities advanced 1.42 points closing at 18.48, against the low of 16.73 on June 1.
The Reserve banks increased their holdings of governments by $70,000,000 last week. Member banks, on the other hand, have been reluctant to use this excess credit because of uncertainties at Washington, but hope arc entertained that these disturbing elements will be removed within the next few weeks.
The policy of the Reserve banks, too, is being shaped with a view to offsetting additional gold exports, and in this connection it is significant that foreign exchanges in recent sessions have been moving in a trend favorable to the dollar. The only currency now at the gold point is Swiss franca, and this exchange, on Friday, was considerably weaker. It sold off 2 points during the. day.	.	.
Perhaps the most important factor in the substantial upswing in prices in the late afternoon was covering by shorts who were frightened by the action of Auburn and Case, the former being marked up 31 points in the last two trading sessions and Case advancing 8% points. Both companies have small outstanding capitalization of less than 200,000 shares, and floating supplies in Wall Street are not large. Auburn featured the market by progressive advances to 67 for 217m points gain.
Crop Report Reflected in Better Prices Further impetus was furnished by the report of the Department of Agriculture, showing the June 1 condition of winter wheat 30,000,000 bushels less than a month previously. This development bad a salutary effect upon wheat prices, and had a repercussion in the cotton market, where quotations were marked up. The report of unfilled tonnage of U. S. Steel Corp, at the end of May was the unfavorable development during the day, and prices had a brief sinking spell following its publication. Besides showing a decline of about 149,000 tons during May. the unfilled tonnage at the month end was at a new record low.
i
■	Wheat Up Sharply on Crop Report
I The impetus for a sharp upturn in wheat was furnished by the U. S. Department of Agriculture's crop report, based on June 1 conditions, which showed a further 30.000,000-bushel deterioration in the prospective winter wheal crop during May. coupled with a spring wheat condition estimate 3.7% under the expectation of the private trade reporters. While the government issued no production estimate on spring wheat, in trade circles it was indicated that should the present condition figure be maintained through harvest time, it would show an output in the neighborhood of 240,000.000 bushels, or 13,000.000 under the last average estimate of the five grain trade experts.
Lender present conditions, it appears that the I total wheat crop from this country will be ap-| proximately 650.000,000 bushels, or roughly 50.-i CWO.OOO under domestic requirements. Such I needs, however, will be fulfilled from the pros-j pective record 400,000,000-bushel surplus from the old crop available July 1.
Winter wheat deterioration during May was the most severe for any month this spring that the government has issued reports for and the
present 411,00^000-bushel prospect is the smallest since 1925. zWlth the exception of that year, and the war year 1917, the winter wheat output is the lowest since 1907. Moreover, seasoned observers are of the opinion that while moisture between now and harvest-time will serve to check further deterioration, It will not be able to improve the present poor prospect. In addition, dry weather would favor increased Hessian fly infestation, which already is the heaviest in a decade In the winter wheat belt.
The spring wheat estimate was a distinct surprise to the grain trade, which had believed that the Northwest area was progressing under the most favorable conditions in some years. Not only was the government estimate of 84.5%, 3.7% under the private estimates, but it was also 2.3% below the ten-year average June 1 condition, 1919-1928. While the crop looked well on the surface, it has suffered severely, however, from a deficiency of sub-soil moisture reserve, due to the drought in that area for the past two seasons.
F. G. Shattuck Sells for Net Current Assets
Capital stock of F. G. Shattuck Co., on which the dividend has just been reduced to 50 cents annually against $1 previously, is selling for less than net current assets, based on balance sheet figures as of December 31, last. Its present price around compares with a book value of $16.08 a share at the end of 1931, giving no consideration to leaseholds, patenls, goodwill, etc.	-
Holdings of cash and government securities at end of 1931 aggregated $5,420,585, alone equal to more than $4 a share of outstanding capital stock. That position, It is understood, bas since been improved, particularly with respect to cash holdings. *1116 current ratio on December 31, last, was 7 to 1.
The dividend reduction is in line with current earnings, which have been affected by the business depression. In the first quarter of this year, Shattuck's net was equal to 20 cents a share on capital stock, as compared with 43 cents in the similar three months of 1931. Shattuck is continuing Its program of expansion, and plans are progressing rapidly for the opening of a large store in Philadelphia.
Safeway Earnings Running Ahead of 1931
Among chain store stocks, Safeway was a feature on the upside. The improvement in price is a reflection largely of the prospect that first half earnings will more than cover dividend requirements. In the Initial quarter of this year net income is understood to have been double that of the corresponding period of 1931, when it was estimated that 62 cents a share was available.
The policy of the company with respect to dividend payments favors a continuance of the present $5 rate so long as earnings hold. Its chain grocery stores are making a relatively good showing with respect to sales. While on a dollar basts they are off somewhat as compared with last year, measured in unit volume, they are higher.
During 1931, Safeway reported net income applicable to common of $6.34 a share, after all charges. Its financial position was strong, with current assets to current liabilities in a ratio of better than 4 to 1. It had cash of $6,588,003 as of December 31, last, and book value aggregated $27,540,145, equal to $34.41 a share of common stock issued.
Steel Unfilled Tonnage At New Low
Steel news was unencouraging, particularly with respect to the largest unit, U. S. Steel Corp. Its unfilled tonnage during May dropped 149,764 tons to a new record low of 2,177,162 tons. The trade held out hopes' that, in view of the low operations of the industry generally, that the decline in tonnage would have been less severe. A sharp falling off in buying by miscellaneous consumers in the latter part of May was a factor.
The steel industry generally is operating on a basis of slightly less than 20%. the low for the current business depression. Indications of improvement In the immediate future are lacking. Developments at the nation's capitalhave been a retarding influence to any recovery in business generally.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.