Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 3, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Abreast of
the Market
Expressions from Congressional leaders, showing that the new British and French notes had brought no apparent change in their views on the war debts, were followed by a further downward movement in security prices yesterday. Stocks reached new lows on the current reaction. The Dow-Jones average of 20 road stocks penetrated the November 3 low. and at the close was only fractionally above the October 10 bottom. Bonds were weak in the final hour. Governments, however, held steady, in contrast to Thursday’s weakness.
With sterling reactionary again, commodities slumped. Wheat closed down more than 1 cent a bushel, and cotton dropped 9 to 16 points.
The market was heavy from the oppning- of trading, but the slump in the morning was not extensive. Declines mostly were limited to less than 2 points, and the rails were not conspicuously weak. New York Central was a heavy spot. In the afternoon, rails turned soft. Delaware & Hudson, D. L. & W„ New York Central and Atchison extended their earlier declines. D. & H. lost 3 points on the day; Central was off 1%, and Union Pacific, ex the quarterly dividend, was off 2K.
Volume Light
Industrials suffered, too, but not so heavily. Weakness in the film stocks attracted some attention. A transaction of 10,000 shares in Paramount Publix at 2 was followed by heavy selling in the stock, carrying th? stock down to 1^, off and only an eighth of a point above the 1932 low’. Warner Bros, and Fox sagged under steady pressure. Trading volume did not pick up on the decline. Transactions approximate! 700,000 shares, the same as Thursday.
There was nothing in the day’s routine news to stimulate activity in either direction. One of the weekly trade reviews was mildly optimistic, citing the favorable curly Christmas retail business. General Electric voted regular dividends on the commoftfend special stock. A stock exchange seat changed hands at $106,000, off 54,000 from the previous transaction.
Appointment of Kurt von Schleicher as chancellor of Germany, practically assuring continuation of the von Papen policies designed to bring about a revival in German industry, brought heavy trading on the Berlin boerse. with prices reaching the year’s highs. In London. British funds declined, and stocks w’ere irregularly lower. The Paris bourse was quiet, and prices steady.
and National Biscuit preferred were bought in the early summer, before the July-September rise, when tbe pound was at around $3.55. Tn selling now, they are not only taking advantage of the rise in these preferred stocks but also of the fact that» in terms of pounds, this rise is exaggerated by the fall in the pound from its early summer levels.
City Finance© and Tax Collections
The figures on New York City tax collections to November $0 certainly furnish food for thought. Collections this year, to that date, are only 68% of the total assessment, while in the similar 1931 period they were 76% of the assessments. The falling off in tax collections is not large, when compared with the declines in other big cities, but it is another compelling argument that should bring about action on cutting tbe city’s expenditures, and cutting them drastically.
Wheat
The commission house attitude on the wheat market has undergone something of a change since the appearance of late estimates on the Argentine wheat crop. In the last 10 days, there has been a complete turnabout in the news. In spite of the larger acreage, some experts figure that the Argentine crop this year may not exceed 209,000,000 bushels, against earlier estimates that ran anywhere from 250 -000,000 to 280,000,000 bushels.	’
Importers, who have ridden on a buyers' market since the depression began, have let stocks of wheat get very low. The five principal European ports report stocks of only 5,770,000 bushels, less than1 half the level of a year ago.
Puts and Calls
Put and call brokers are finding it pretty difficult to gauge the market’s movements over the next 30 days. Thirty-day calls on Allied Chemical are being sold 7^ points up and puts points down while on Consolidated Gas, calls are at 5’*; up and puts at 5^ to 6’6 down. Puts are being sold at very close to the market in Standard Brands. Gillette and Montgomery Ward, while in United Corp, and International Telephone, puts Friday morning were going “at the market.”
How They Stand
Earnings reports as compared with those for the corresponding periods last year, and dividend declarations compared with the previous ones of leading companies, follow:
Decreased earnings ......
Increased earnings ......
Unchanged dividends .... Increased dividends .....
Omitted dividends .......
Decreased dividends......
Resumed dividends .......
Since
Oct 1
575
143
487
24
32
Additions yesterday 3
21
High and Low Prices
Friday, on the New York Stock Exchange, one stock (Homestake Mining) made a new high, and four stocks (American Ice, Coco Cola Inter., Holland Furnace, and Zonite Products) made new lows, for the year 1932.
Why?
A good deal of mystery surrounded the declaration of the regular quarterly dividend bj-directors of Auburn Automobile. Directors actually acted on the dividend in New York on Thursday, but it was not made public until around noon yesterday. There was no ready explanation as to why tbe public was not immediately informed of the directors’ action, as soon as it was taken, the normal and proper procedure. After all, stockholders are entitled to know immediately what action directors fhke on dividend payments. It is their company, not that of the directors.
Incidentally, Auburn closed off 1 Vi, sagging with the rest of the market despite the news of the regular payment.
The Debt Notes
Congressional leaders in Washington apparently were not^impressed by the new debt notes from France and England, but in Wall Street the notes, particularly that from England, were regarded as expositions of the situation distinguished for their clarity and frankness. The lines they followed are those which have been laid down for years by economists of all the important countries involved in the debt settlement, including those of the United States.
One sentence in the English note sums up the debt matter in full. It says: "It will not profit a creditor country to collect a few million pounds or dollars if it thereby perpetuates a world disorder which, reacting on itself, involves losses of revenue many times greater; and a settlement, however generous it may seem, which relieves the economic machinery of the world by clearing up these inter-governmental payments, would be repaid again and again by the contribution which it would make to world revival."
The sections in both debt notes, discussing the necessity of revising European inter-governmental debt and reparations agreements it further debt payments are made to this country, can only cause grave apprehension. The Lausanne accord brought hope to Europe that the first major move to break the world-wide depression had been accomplished. The accord was the prime factor in bringing about the greatest recovery in security prices in this country since the depression began. In Germany, which was released from an intolerable burden, there has been a steady improvement in business and the price level.
Some of the disturbing events predicted In the notes probably will not take place even if Congress sticks to its guns and refuses to agree to postponement of the December payments. But reconsideration of the whole debt problem is a pre-requisite to world recovery.
Foreign Orders
Foreign trading in the market has been distinctly mixed. One house, which does buying for English and Scotch investment trusts, has been a steady purchaser of stocks on the current reaction. While orders have not been very large, the buying has continued steadily.
In another house, Englisb investors have been taking profits in some American preferred stocks which, in terms of British currency, are unusually large. Stocks like Corn Products
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.