Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 23, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Sy ’Richard E. Edmondson
Increasing.resistance to further gains in the principal shares developed in yesterday’s session the Stock Exchange. Overnight news was unfavorable, with the Federal Reserve statements showing further contraction in outstanding credit, and affording no reflection of efforts by the central banking authorities to ease money rates through open market purchases of bills and government securities.
While it was felt that the Reserve authorities may have delayed such activities, pending a better understanding abroad of the proposed anti-deflationary campaign in this country, their failure to appear occasioned no little disappointment. Moreover, some uncertainty was caused by the banking bill introduced by Senator Glass. One of the features of this measure was a clause restricting the use of Federal Reserve credit for stock market speculation. However, doubt was expressed m Washington regarding the constitutionality of various provisions of the Glass bill, including those touching upon collateral loans, and proposing to restrict group and chain banking.	I
No stimulation was supplied to dealings in the bond market by the offering during the , morning of 5100,000.000 New York City’ 6-< special corporate stock notes. Prompt advancement of these notes to a premium basis reflected the eagerness with which they were absorbed by the public. However, the attitude taken by* bonds generally’ seemed to be that the high yield placed on the issue robbed it of significance with relation to existing bond quotations. But, at any rate, the flotation demonstrated that the public was m a receptive mood to municipal offerings when the price was right and this test was expected to stimulate more active municipal financing
Induntrials Counter Kails* Leadership
Indications that the principal stocks were > encountering persistent offerings on efforts to extend their recent gains, were strongly con-! vc-yed by* price movements during the morning. Favorable advices regarding the railway wage negotiations at Chicago stimulated another buy’-! ing movement m the rails.	!
Following Thursday’s advances in Pennsylvania and New Haven through previous resistance levels on the upside to new highs on the movement, Northern Pacific. Missouri Pacific preferred and Southern Pacific also rose to new ‘ highs for the year. Atchison ran up sharply, and the whole carrier group engaged m a torn-: porary burst of strength.	<
However, the rails were freely offered whim the Dow-Jones average for this clus^ of stocks 1 approximated its high of January l.’i When the i rails proved unable tn do better than make a double top. substantial selling dev eloped in other i sections of the list. Steel American Can. Allied Chemical, American Telephone. and other pivotal shares were subjected tn renewed pres- . sure, and experienced substantial setbacks from 1 their recent highs, with large offerings reported from abroad. Reactionary tendencies broadened during the afternoon, and the genera! list was heavy’ through the last hour.
Steel Dividend Meeting Awaited
More than usual interest is centered on next Tuesday *k meeting of X’. S. Steel directors ou ing to conflicting influences which make it difficult to form an oninion ns to wtmt action will tie taken regarding the present S4 common dividend rate. Siner the corporation failed to cover its preferred dividend requirements hist year, it is felt that the management may see tit tn make downward revision in the amount of distributions to common shareholders.
On the other hand, then' is the pros|>ect that directors may deride to help the Administration’s efforts to restore confidence by continuing the present rate of payments, particularly if they st e improvement in steel business ahead. It is this possibility that has created considerable nervousness among the shorts in Steel common. It is recalled that Westinghouse Electric had n sharp uprush last December when the company authorized rin unearned dividend out of surplus, and the thought which is bothering the shorts js ihat favorable dividend action on part of the Steel Corp, might have a similar sequel.
Public Apathetic Toward Market	'
Public participation in the market continues small, and is largely confined to outright purchases of stocks desired tor investment put-, poses. Reflection of this situation was again ‘ afforded in the weekly statement on brokers’ loans. Latter «howcd a further decrease of S32.000.000 in the seven day’s ended January 20. bringing the total down to a new rr?o:d lov»- at 1.000.000	Picsent aggregate if oniy 77'r
of the peak reached in October, 1929
In the week ended January Ki, brokers’ loans
were reduced $5,000,000 notwithstanding extensive gains in the principal stocks. During the past week, a much more substantial cut took place although the market held the greater part of its gains. This situation is diametrically opposite to what happened at the top of the bull market. Although stock prices reached their highs on September 3, 1929, and then turned downward, brokers’ loans continued to expand for another month.
It was evident that public buying was attracted by price recessions at that time, accounting for the upward trend maintained by brokerage borrowings after the market had entered a major decline. Now, however, the public is regarding price advances with considerable skepticism, and this attitude is helping the market to build up technical strength.
Utility Stocks Show Stability
Professionals pessimistic about the immediate outlook for the market have been putting out short lines in utility stocks in the belief that their relative backwardness on the recent recovery has been indicative of a. vulnerable position. At their recent highs, utilities on the average had recovered only about 30% of the ground lost on the decline from November 9 to January’ 5, while rails had enjoyed a retracement of 41%. and industrials of more than 32%.
However, Interests bullish on the utilities point out that stocks of this group, as measured by the Dow-Jones averages, had been reduced 30% in market value by’ the November-January slump, whereas the rails suffered a shrinkage of 43%, and industrials of 39%. This evidence of greater stability Is regarded as n point in favor of the utilities.
In seeking long-term opportunities In the utility group, some observers contend that the Investor should give particular consideration to the shares of companies doing an extensive business in the domestic and municipal power fields. This viewpoint is based on the fact that sale*, of electricity to domestic users in the first 11 months last year showed an increase of more than 7% over the corresponding 1930 period, while consumption for municipal street lighting expanded 4.1%. These gains compared with a. decrease of 4.2% in total sales of electricity in the United States during that period.
W heat in Narrow Range
The battle of wheat, with first honors scored by* the eastern constructive forces last Saturday and Monday, when the major staple ran up C cents a bushel under a flurry of aggressive buying ha* continued at a virtual stalemate since that time, with considerable selling coming from the less enthusiastic western pit clement. Eased on world conditions, although domestic prices arc low. no noteworthy' recovery can be expected without definite < onfirmatior. of substantial damage to the United States winter wheat crop, owing to the cold weather and unusual growing conditions This is unlikely before Muy the western traders believe.
If it were not for the 42-rent protective wheat tariff imposed by this country, wheat Lould profitably b- imported into New York, as the Chicago market is currently 4 to 5 cents over Liverpool compared with the normal freight and transportation premium of 2 7 cents held by the latter market. This has served to curtail United State1’ exports to the smallest amount m the pn*t 20 years, despite the fact , that the current crop is the fifth largest in i American history. It will probably bo reflected m another record surplus on July 1. next ap-. prcciably over 400.000.000 bushels. which will off'-'ct the reductions m the nviv crop, which is likely to be only around GOO 000 000 bushels Liverpool is still retaining the aspect of a buyers market failing to follow the flurry* on this side of the Atlantic recently Argentina and Australia are rushing their crops to market and the Continent is currently well supplied Southern hemisphere shipments for the week ended January 22 totaled JI.521.000 bushels These two countries still have 233.388.000 bushels remaining for export, and are likely to ' ship the bulk of this wheat before July I During the first 23 weeks of the crop season, exports have totaled 335.600.000 bushels or only •13', of the estimated needs oi 776.000.009 bushels for the entire crop year The amount of v. heat remaining lor export in Soviet Russia and other smaller countries bordering on the Black Sea is incalculable at present. The combined Canadian 1930 and 1931 crop estimates were revised 29.000 000 bushels h.gher Thursday. As Dominion funds are at a substantial d scount. Canadian wheat will probaoly be favored on rhe Continent.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.