Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 30, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2	-	,	, .
t Abreast 'of
A turgid upward movement in the first hour of trading yesterday carried stocks near the high of the recent trading range, hut they hacked away and moved lower, closing the day near their bottom prices, with the leaders down anywhere from fractions to 3 to 4 points. The bond market was irregular, with thg highest grade bonds, particularly the best rail issues, in demand. A few industrial obligations suffered sharp losses. The Dow-Jones average of 40 corporation issues closed up on the day. Declines in wheat and cotton had an adverse effect on stocks. Wheat was off close to a cent a bushel, and cotton ended at about the day's lows, off nearly $2.50 a bale.
The market in stocks was practically featureless. Stocks opened fractionally higher, with Telephone starting off at 115, an overnight gain of three-quarters of a point; Steel was up fractionally; Montgomery Word was unchanged and United Aircraft up five-eighths. The leaders managed to push forward a little against increased rsistance during the first hour. Carly in the second hour, they sagged, and worked lower the remainder of the day, with Intermittent rallies. At the close, Telephone was off more than three points from its best price; Steel about the same amount; Central close to two, and Consolidated Gas. a feature on the upside in the morning, off about a point from the day's best level. Pullman was about the only active stock to resist the decline. It closed up a half on the day. Trading in the stock was unusually heavy.
International Harvester and J. I. Case both were reactionary under the	of the
drop in wheat prices. Montgomery Ward, which has been one of the most active stocks on the board, ran into heavy selling after reaching a new high, and reacted more than a point. Sears Roebuck, too. suffered a setback after early strength.
The day's news hardly was sufficient to move the market in either direction. Food prices at wholesale, after reacting for,several weeks, turned up slightly once more, according to one of the weekly reviews. Money in circulation at the end of August, according to the Treasury Department, was down $34,208,288 from the preceding month, but more than $640,000,000 above a year ago.
Reports covering all lines of trade and general business activity in the Chicago area indicate that the current level is the highest of the year, according to one of the statistical bureaus. Both, wholesale and retail sales are moving forward. Standard Oil of Kentucky and Standard of Indiana reduced gasoline prices in their territories. .
The markets In Paris and London continued to sag. In Paris, the market was hesitant and inactive. In London, prices were irregularly downward.
price for coffee held steady yesterday, so that bids on. the 62,500 bags for October delivery* should'Hot">be far under current quotations. ‘But If -Imports, of coffee are resumed, .the Farm Board will lose its position as the sole holder of-Santos coffee in this country, and the value of its holdings will decline accordingly.
Standard OH of Kansas	'
There has been a good deal of public misconception in regard to the change in the Standard Oil o£ Kansas -picture brought about by -the sale of Its refinery plant, and also some pipe-.lines. The new Standard Oil Co.,of Kansas, incorporated in Delaware,.which succeeds the bld Kansas company, holds producing properties recently developed in the midcontinent -field which are earning at a satisfactory rate under the present restricted proration regulations. The operating losses of the old company came through the refining end of the business, disposed of to Standard Oil Co.	>
The new Kansas company has $5,375,000 In cash and ^government short-term securities, equal, after providing for all debts and prior obligations, to $17 a share on the 320,000 shares of stock outstanding.
Reconstruction Finance Corp. Loans Decline
Loans made by the Reconstruction Finance Corp, in the five weeks to September 3, to financial Institutions, were only about 40% of the total for the five weeks ended July 30, according to a statement from Gardner Cowles, a director of the corporation. The figures serve as an index of the betterment in the general financial situation brought about by the improved price level for securities.
Requests for loan* had no such decline as actual advances. In the latest period they were down only about 20% from the previous five weeks. It would be interesting to know the number of loan applications actually granted in both periods,	than just tbe number of ap-
plications.
How They Stand ..
Earnings reports, as compared with those for the corresponding period last year, and dividend announcements compared with the previous ones of leading companies, follow:
	Since	Additions
Decreased earnings		July 1	vesterday
	...	716	3
Increased earaings ....	.... 02	1 •
Unchanged dividends	.	...	834	12
Increased dividends ....	... 11	
Omitted dividends 		... 108	
Decreased dividends 			. . . .	92	i
High and Low Prices
Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange seven stocks made new highs and 1 made a new low for the year 1932.
New Highs
Axn Coen Ale I (Sold Dust pf I KoUrBT Bpfct Com t T 7%pf I KettbAJbO pl Mont's Wurd Conoal <ia« pl I	|
New Dows
BornaBr A et
The Steel Output Outlook
Although, demand from most of the important steel consumers has not increased substantially in recent weeks, buyins by miscellaneous users has continued to expand, so that there have been rather impressive sains in steel insot production. The railroads are increasing their repair work, and it now is apparent that further Expansion in this line is forthcoming* This means a' larger demand for steel from this source than has been the case in quite a long time.
October normally is the best month of the last half of the year for operations, because weather and other conditions are more favorable than in. the hot summer months or in midwinter. There are indications now that steel operations may rise to as much as 25% of theoretical capacity before the end of October. This would be more than double the low rate reached in some weeks in July and August. Thereafter, much will depend on specifications from steel consumers against orders on the books of makers.	'
The Romantic Touch in Business
The investigations into the Kreuger affair developed sufficient material, within a few weeks, to stimulate the production of at least three books on the life of Mr. Kreuger. Newspaper readers, too, have been treated to a daily fare of financial news brightened by the glamor of fiction. There was the "quiet room,” the safe with its reputed store of bonds of questionable origin.	,
Now, into the investigation of the collapse of the Insull public utility empire, the assistant state’s attorney Injects the mysterious note. A panel, opened by a hidden button, furnished a means of communication between the Insull executives' offices in New York to the offices of one of the Middle West Utilities subsidiaries, according to the assistant state’s attorney. The panel’s significance has not been established, but certainly it served as an easier means of communication between the two offices than two elevator rides, one down, one up. The panel, however, heightens the drama of the Insull investigation.
Santos Coffee Off limit
The break in coffee, which carried December Santos down 200 points, the limit for one day's trading on the exchange, was something of a blow to the Federal Farm Board, which owns practically all tbe Santos coffee in this country at the present time. If the revolution in Brazil is quelled, and the double-barreled blockade of the port of Santos ceases, as the .news indicates may come about, the value of the Farm Board’s coffee holdings will be cut.down drastically, Hopes for a huge profit from its wheatcoffee barter-transaction will go a-gllmmering.
Bids for the-October offering.of Farm Board coffee are due -to be -received today. The spot
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.