Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 27, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Reactionary tendencies ruled the securities markets at the start of the new week, stocks dipping sharply in the late trading. The bond market maintained a fairly good tone, but the more speculative issues lost ground. The Dow-Jones average of 40 corporation bonds was up slightly. Wheat closed only a small fraction lower. Cotton managed to hold some J3t its early gains, closing up 3 to 6 points.
The opening in stocks was a tame affair, contrasting sharply with some of the optimistic predictions made before the day’s trading got under way. Changes were generally small, with advances predominating. The steel stocks, as a group, did the best in the first hour, U. S. Steel common moving forward almost a point from the opening and minor steel company issues followed suit. The rails were sluggish, sagging in the face of firmness elsewhere.
Declines in the pivotal rails brought selling elsewhere, and the market drifted lower, mending- was in very reduced volume. United Aircraft, which got up to 34% in the forepart of the session, Bold down to around 30, off close to four points; American Telephone lost about the -lamp amount, and the Steel issues dropped their advances, and more too. Rail shares turned definitely weak.
actual esport parity and disposition of its remaining supplies.
L C. C. Relents Toward NickelPIate
Having given	Nickel Plate’s security
He-rs a thorough scare, the Interstate Commerce Commission has relented somewhat in its attitude. It has approved an advance to the company to 'meet underlying bond interest, due October 1, without reference to the success of the Nickel Plate’s efforts to get the 6% noteholders to agree to the refinancing plan proposed for the notes. While the , Commission’s new position is a little more .favorable for. the picture generally,'it doesn’t dissipate the clouds that hanging mfer the Nickel Plate. The noteholders still are’ faced with the proposition of -taking 25% in cash, and extending 75% of the notes for three years, or seeing if they can get anything in the courts for their unsecured
Over the ■week-end, deposits of the notes, assenting to the readjustment plan, picked up somewhat. Slightly more than 30% havebeen deposited, and, with promises, around 35% or the noteholders have fallen in line for the plan.
Additions yesterday 21 1 7
How They Stand
Earnings reports, as compared with those for the corresponding period last year, and dividend announcements compared with the previous ones of leading companies, follow:
Since July 1 700 91 808
11
104
89
Decreased earnings . Increased earnings .. Unchanged dividends Increased dividends . Omitted dividends .. Decreased dividends .
High and Low T»rice®
Monday on the New York Stock Exchange seven stocks made new highs and no stocks made new lows for the year 1932.
. New High* Gabriel Co A. I Mont’s Wiurd Lorlllarrt pT. . I Net Bias pt.. Mack TrncMe. |
Unit AlrAT pt United Carbon
Prices Close Above Day’s Lows
Steadiness in the early afternoon was succeeded by weakness in the last hour. Aircraft, always a volatile performer, got down, below 28, where it was off more than 5 points. American Telephone, at its low, was down more than 5. American Can had a sharp set-back. Losses throughout the list ran from a point to 4 or 5. "Volume picked up on the decline. The close was steady, slightly above the day’s lows.
Early strength in the steel shares reflected Interest attracted by the week-end steel trade reviews, which were distinctly more optimistic in tenor. Operations have been stepped up to around 17% of" capacity, ar about 2%, over the previous week. The level still is one at which almost none of the Important units of the industry can make money.
Loadings of the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway for the week ended September 24 showed a continuation of the improved trend. They were slightly above .those of the preceding week. The decline from the like 1931 week was 16.2%, compared with a drop of 16.6% in the previous week from the like 1931 week.
Commodity price indices were less favorable. Fisher's index moved lower, and the National Fertilizer Association’s index reacted slightly.
Markets abroad were lower. In London prices were reactionary,- and in Paris stocks were weak.
Normal Rail Traffic High Point Near
Railroad traffic figures have been consistently favorable for, roughly, six weeks. The week to week increases in traffic, and the steadily dwindling percentage declines from the like weeks a year ago, have combined to stimulate enthusiasm for the rail shares. They have led the market upward.
The normal high point of the year in railroad traffic now is at hand. In three of ■ the past four years, the top for the year has been reached in early October. Only in 1930 was the seasonal trend broken. In that year, late August saw the best traffic figures.
" In 1928, 1929 and 1931, the* weekly loadings figures reached their tops for the year in the week ended October 1. From that point to the year end, the trend was downward, with the pace of the decline accelerating as the last of the year approached. Last year, for instance, weekly loadings dropped from a level of about 640,000 cars for the week ended December 3, to 440,000 cars for the last week of the year.
This year has been so abnormal in so many respects that some railroad students consider it possible that the peak for the weekly loadings figures will come later than usual. x If general business continues on the mend, this probably will be the case. Even if the weekly totals sag off toward the year end, however, the trend of smaller percentage declines from a year ago seems likely to continue, as last year’s drop at the end of the year was extremely steep.
Chines^ Wheat Story ’
The prospect that the Farm Board might enter the wheat market to purchase grain for another 15,000,000-bushel sale to China had no stimulating effect on wheat prices. Newspaper stories, discussing the possibility of Farm Board buying, insisted that the White House conferees who discussed the proposed sale asserted that It would bring about an advance in wheat prices, put at- as much as 10 cents a bushel. The grain trade was inclined to view the forecasts as a little more then optimistic.
Private reports from Washington indicate that the transaction will be made with privately owned Pacific Coast wheat, because the Farm Board's own cash supplies are virtually exhausted. The Farm Board will act only in an advisory capacity. The Reconstruction Finance Corp, loan- of '$8,000,000 would in reality be only an export bonus to enable the private growers to meet the world price. China, which bought about 1,500,000 bushels of Canadian wheat last week and paid cash, would be unlikely to offer better than the world price, .even should the necessary credits be arranged.
The sale would be partially beneficial in that it would draw on that much of the record 379,-1000,000-bushel surplus in this country. However, it would bring the United States ho nearer
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.