The Markets: Advance in Stocks Cotinues on Stabilization Corp. ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 6, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
The Markets
Advance in Stocks Continues on Stabilization Corp. Announcement—Utilities, Rails Up Sharply—Commodity Markets Mixed
London and Pari* market* dosed
Advancing tendencies which developed in the atgek market on Friday, in recognition of the formation of a huge financial corporation with substantial bank support to acquire sound securities, were carried over into the half-day session at the week-end and sizeable gains 'were marked up throughout the general list of stocks. The upward movement gathered momentum as trading progressed and the volume of transactions was the largest for a half-day in some time.
Further impetus to the rise in stock prices was furnished by sharp advances in the bond market, where U. S, government issues shared In the upswing. Commodity markets were mixed, wheat closing lower where cotton advanced slightly.
Leading utility stocks featured with strength, in reflection of the revision of the proposed electric tax amendment in the revenue bill, whereby the domestic and commercial consumer would assume the 3% tax. Consolidated Gas, Public Service of N. J. and North American scored sharp advances and gave the best performance, aside from temporary spells of strength on Friday, in several weeks.
Another group to demonstrate pronounced strength was railroads, the leading stocks being up full points in many instances. Atchison, Canadian Pacific and New York Central were particularly conspicuous on the upside. Tobacco shares participated in the advancing market and specialties, such as Woolworth, also took part.
Gillette Policy Conservative
While stock of Gillette Safety Razor Co. has been quiet in recent sessions around 14 despite the buoyancy of the general market, the company has been making definite progress in improving its capital position by the gradual retirement of its senior debt Of an original issue of $20,000,000 offered In 1930, the retirement of its debentures to March 31, last, amounted to almost $9,000,000, or 45%. Purchases of these debentures have been effected with surplus cash and have necessitated no bank indebtedness.
Aside from this development, the company has improved its trade position, particularly since the introduction. of the new so-called “blue" blade, in the early part of this year. Its net income in the first quarter of the current year was equal to 66 cents a share on common stock against 52 cents earned In the corresponding period of 1931. In line with Hhe betterment, from an operating standpoint, the directors in the first quarter declared a dividend of 25 cents, and recently ordered the disbursement of a similar amount for the second quarter.
Gillette is in a strong position, financially, with cash and marketable securities approximating $8,700,000. or substantially $5,000,000 more than has been required by the company to handle its volume of business even at the peak of operations. Current ratio was better than 4 to 1 at the end of March, with current liabilities of $3,070,000, none of which represented bank debt.
Worthington Pump Maintains Strong Finances
Common stock of Worthington Pump A Machinery Corp, has been moving within 2 points of its low, at 7*i. The company currently is
operating at a loss but should,, within the next few months, begin to obtain the benefits of operating economies put into effect in earlier months of the present year. Repair business is making up a large part of its operations and inquiries for new equipment are substantial although the actual placement of orders is not materializing. The company is making sales, however, where its engineer* can prove to cus-x tomers that savings will be effected by Improvement of present production methods.
Despite the adverse operating status, Worthington continues to maintain its finances in an extremely liquid condition. At present these show but a slight change from the end of 1931 when current assets were equal to more than $18 for each $1 of current liabilities. Its cash and government securities approximated $6,500,000, and alone were more than $5,700,000 in excess of total current liabilities.
Of the past ten years, only one—1931—failed to show some earnings. The business depression last year was chiefly responsible for a deficit of $660,158 after all charges, while in the two immediately preceding years net income was in excess of $2,000,000, equal to more than $12 a share on common stock after allowing for dividends on both classes of preferred outstanding.
Utility Share* Improve on Tax Change
The better tone in utility stocks resulted from the proposed revision of the electricity tax amendment to the Senate revenue bill. The changes represent a complete reversal of the briglnal Howell plan which was considered clearly discriminatory by many because It specifically excluded the municipal plants from the tax.
The new provision eliminates all the ambiguity of the Howell proposal and states clearly that the domestic and commercial consumer would assume the 3% tax. The new bill also would free the industrial power user of the tax and thereby eliminate any government barrier to continued development of that class of business which, essentially, stabilizes the load by use of surplus power during the day and at other times when the normal load slackens.
Business Profit* Small After Charges
With the total volume of production and trade estimated at 40% to 50% below the level of three year* ago, corporation earnings reports for the first quarter of 1932 showed little net profit after all expenses and fixed charges had been met. The total net profits of 293 industrial and mercantile companies for the first quarter were less than one-fifth as large as in the corresponding months of 1931, and less than one-tenth as large as in 1930.
The only group of companies to report more favorable earnings than last year was the oil group, which showed a small amount of net profits In 1932 against a deficit in the first quarter of 1931. The earnings of food companies werl fairly well maintained, but all other groups showed substantial declines in profits, and a number of groups showed deficits. Telephone and other public utility companies showed smaller earnings than in the three previous years, but the reductions were quite moderate. Railroad companies, like Industrials, were considerably affected by the further decline in the volume of production and trade.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.