The Markets: Stocks react on profit taking and short selling in ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 3, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Stocks react on profit taking and short selling in moderately active market—sentiment continues optimistic.
London markets Irregular, with British funds slightly lower; common stocks generally higher, especially mines and oils.
Paris Bourse continues firm.
Reactionary conditions ruled the stock market throughout the session and whenever prices hardened there was selling both by shorts and by those who had bought during the last 10 days. Trading generally waa quiet but there were bursts of activity when larger selling hit particular stocks.
While sentiment in the Street favored a reaction, it was noted that generally speaking nothing more than a reaction was anticipated and the Street as a whole expected prices to resume an upward trend when the rapid rise of the past week had been technically corrected.
There has been no special change in the business situation. Some commodities have advanced and there has been some stimulation id manufacturing lines preparing for the usual increased business in the final quarter of the year. Shelves are bare in every direction, manufacturers. middlemen and retailers, and any turn for the better in trade would turn a replacement business into an anxious demand which might In many industries be difficult to fill.
Rai] shares have shown reactionary tendencies for the last few davs and again sold off.	‘
American Telephone, Allied Chemical, American Can and others which have advanced from 10 to 20 points in the last month with the greater part of the gain in the last ten days, shaded off rather easily.
Oils held their own rather well Some of the specialties also showed reduced activity on declines.	'
Radio Manufacturing Increasing
Reviving interest in radio securities is based on the stimulation to radio receiving set manufacture which has been reported recently. Some of this activity is in preparation for the last three months of the year, which usually represent the best in the retail end of the business. On the other hand, merchants are making a special drive m various parts ot the country for replacement business, number of obsolete receivers in use throughout the country being estimated at approximately 4.500.000.
It is estimated that approximately SI.SOO.-000.000 is invested In the radio industry in this country. Of this., S150 000,000 represents investment of radio manufacturers $250,000,000 in broadcasting. Si,600.000.000 in listeners* sets and $25.00o.o00 in commercial radio stations. Th«‘ industry which is barelv 15 year.- old contributes approximately $30o OOu.OOO to the national wealth annual!;.
Soars-Roebuck Outlook
There has been some buying m Sears-Roe
buck on the belief that the decline In the company's sales for the full year, 1932, may be less than the 20.5% reported for the first 24 weeks to June 18. No change in the present downward trend of the dollar volume is likely before September, but thereafter percentage declines from last year may be smaller than those reported for the first six four-week periods.
Brokers* Business Better
Although commission business in the Street is not yet as stabilized as brokers would like it. there has been a distinct upward curve for many houses in the past ten days. This business has not been limited to Wall Street origin, a distinctly larger totdl from out-of-town points showing emphatically that the country as a whole is still interested in the security markets. One brokerage house has received inquiries about various companies in the last month from clients ki every state in the union.
<T. I Case Bought in Small Lots
Although some of the leading Street operators have been mentioned as buying into J. I. Case recently, none of them would admit such a position. One in fact, is understood to be still holding to a short position. On the other hand, it has been obvious that there has been some buying of the stock in small lots. Gross sales have not been reported in recent years but an index of the company’s business is afforded in net income This rose from a deficit of $583,130 m 1921 to a profit of $4,236,890 in 1928. Since then the company’s business has been on the decline and in 1931 there was again a deficit. While earnings outlook for 1932 lb problematical the particxilar points of interest in the stock are the possibility of a recovery in earning power on return to normalcy and the statistical strength of the stock. Capitalization is small, the company has no funded debt and only $13,000,000 of preferred and 191.960 shares of common ($100 part.
International Telephone Buying
Witn the shareholders' list of the International Telephone <£= Telegraph steadily climbing above the 100.000 mark, there has been considerable investment in Lnese shares at the current low prices. Averaging has taken place too by those who have shares considerably higher.
While there is no general improvement in the communication business as a whole, this company is enjoying a fair telephone business With European affairs gradually improving undoubtedly there will be a return to the large telephone programs =u many governments wanted to put through and which will mean additional business to the company’s fartlung subsidiary, the International Standard Electric which has been so successful in past years.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.