The Markets: New Lows by Leaders--Westinghouse Electric and Allied Chemical Notably Weak
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 28, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
The Markets
2Veto Loxes by Leaders—Westinghouse Electric and Allied Chemical Notably Weak '
London market generally steady; German and Japanese bonds lower; stocks irregular.
Paris bourse firm.
Unsatisfactory trade reports, prospects of further downward revisions in dividends and indications that some form of relief legislation would be enacted by Congress before its adjournment, were the chief unsettling factors influencing prices on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday. The lint, as a whole, moved sharply downward with many leading stocks establishing new low levels.
Pressure converged particularly on Issues representing corporations which are scheduled to hold dividend meetings in the current week. Included in this group were Allied Chemical, Westinghouse Electric, Atchison and American Can. All penetrated their previous low levels, although American Can in its downswing lost less ground than the others and in the final hour it marked up again of for the day.
The Dow-Jones* industrial and railroad averages established new low levels al the close on Monday, the industrials, at 42.93, being off 1.83 from Saturday’s final average and comparing with the previous low of 44.74 reached on May 31, last. The railroads closed at 13.76, a drop of .98, and comparing with the previous low of 14.10 on June 1. The utilities were 0.53 lower on the day, hut held 40 points above their record low of 16.73 reached on June 1.
Anent relief, it now appears certain that some form of measure will come out of conference. Speaker Garner, after a meeting between House and Senate conferees, stated that no suggestions were made on the public works feature, which has been left for compromise. He insisted upon the acceptance by conferees of titles 1 and 2, which would place $100,000,000 at the disposal of the President for relief of the destitute and permit the Reconstruction Finance Corp, to extend its loaning power to private industry by $1,000,000,000.
Commodity markets were mixed, grain being lower after a substantial rise during the session, and cotton and sugar showing improvement on the day. The bond market was irregular. railroads being better and governments holding firm.
Among leading stocks to break through their previous lows were U. S. Steel, both preferred and common, General Motors, American Telephone, du Pont, National Biscuit, Union Pacific and Sears-Roebuck.
Unemployment Relief .And the Budget
Despite the passage of the revenue lav.', it is not yet certain that a balanced budget for the coming fiscal year will actually be aenteved, even without allowance for the probable passage of the $500,000,000 unemployment relief bill. Important economies are needed to close the gap between expenditures and revenues, as now estimated: and Congress has not yet agreed on how ah of those economies shall bo effected. Moreover, the estimates themselves are subject to wide margins of error.
Aside from these uncertainties, states the Guaranty Trust Co., there are two specific ways in which the balance may be upset. On the revenue side, the budget contemplates the resumption erf war-debt payments nt the cloi of the moratorium period on June 30. It very questionable whether such payments wl be made.
"With regard to expenditures.’* states tl
Guaranty, “it is possible that an absence of any substantial Increase in employment during the summer and autumn will oblige the Federal government to adopt relief measures on a scale far beyond any thing that has yet been seriously considered. This is a question that will not arise until Congress reconvenes next December; but as long as employment remains at its present low level, the uncertainty will continue to be a factor of major importance m the outlook for governmental finance. It is by no means Impossible that by next winter a need for further tax increases may have become clearly apparent.’’
Westinghouse Electric Under Pressure Westinghouse Electric common was subject to liquidation and sold down to a new low, off 2% points as compared with Saturday's closing price. The directors are scheduled to act on dlvldenda..on Wednesday. Operations in the current year have been at a loss, the first quarter disclosing a net deficit of $1,320,148, following a loss for the full year 1931 of $3,655,660.
During this period, Westinghouse Electric continued the payment of dividends out of surplus, and the Jattar account, In consequence, has been reduced substantially, when c insideration is given also tn other adjustments during 1931. It totaled $79,050,324 on December 31, last, a reduction of $16,323,000 from a year previously.
In order to conserve cash assets, Westinghouse has been scaling down dividends on the common shares In the past 18 months. The last declaration was 25 cents a share, for the March, 1932, quarter, which compared with 62 Vi cents for the previous two quarters. For all of 1931 it paid $3.87 on the common, against $5 tn 1930. Orders booked to the end of the first quarter were running approximately 32% behind the similar period in 1931.
Kroger Grocery Holding Sales Ground
Among chain store stocks, Kroger Grocery & Baking Co. has been faring satisfactorily in recent weeks, its sales volume holding about unchanged from earlier periods this year. For the 24 weeks ended June 18, a decline of slightly above 14% was reported. Assuming that a further recession does not materialize, the company probably will show earnings for the first six months covering the year’s dividend of $1. Jn the corresponding period a year ago, earnings were equal to $1.25 a share on common stock.
To offset partly the drop in sales volume, the company is obtaining the benefit of economics, including th eclosing of unprofitable and closely competing units, and consolidation of activities, all tending to effect savings in expense. The decline in realty values also has been of some benefit in that the company can obtain leases for desirable locations at large concessions as compared with previous years.
Kroger's finances at the close of the last fiscal year—January 2. 1932—were fairly strong with current assets equal to slightly better than $4 for each $1 of current liabilities. The company showed no "notes payable” whereas a year ago that liability stood at $937,486. Included in current assets were 35,524,000 of cash and $2,359,000 of United States government securities: the aggregate of these ttMn assets alone being in excess of total current liabilities. It has been maintaining inventories at the lowest possible levels, a reduction of more than $3,000,000 being disclosed as of January 2, last, as compared with a year earlier.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.