The Markets: Stocks Rise Sharply on Improvement in Sentiment--Gains ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 16, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8	-
The Markets
Stocks Rise^Sharply on Improvement in Sentiment—Gains of e to 7 Points Liberally Distributed—Kodak Features Strength,
London market steady to higher; British funds strong; Argentines lower; tin shares off.
Paris Bourse Irregular In all departments.
Berlin Boerse steady; turnover small. ....
A decided Improvement In sentiment, engendered by recent constructive developments brought a sharp upswing in prices on the New York Stock Exchange. Leading stocks registered advances of from 1 to 7 points, and sub-
debt, for an increase in our interest-bearing debt in time of peace means that ordinary governmental receipts have not been adequate to cover ordinary expenditures.
“From 1879 down to the depression of the '90s the debt was rapidly reduced, but with a check in the rate of decline during the depression of 1884. In the depression of the ’90s the budget was again out of balance, and the debt increased, and this was followed by a further ____________ _	_	__ advance due to the expenditures of the war Manual gains were distributed HbereUy through- wttb Spain.^ Tenjeara later there wae^another out the list. Trading activity picked up con- *	***““ *“	“*	*“
siderably from the two immediately preceding sessions.
The American dollar again gained strength in foreign exchange markets, thus further building up a position against withdrawals of gold from this country. This factor probably contributed more to improvement than many others.
In recent days the market has given tangible evidence of being in a strong technical position, favoring a renewal of sponsorship in individual issues. The lack of more aggressive buying, however, has been due to cautiousness on the part of large-scale traders who prefer to await clarification of the course of events at Lausanne and a more definite indication of an early adjournment of Congress.
Steel News Not Encouraging
Trade developments have not been particularly encouraging, especially with respect to the steel industry. The latest estimate places steel output at about 18%, with the immediate outlook obscure. It is generally believed, however, that present production is considerably below the wear and tear needs of the country, indicating that so low a rate of output cannot continue much longer.
The trend of prices in principal commodity markets favored stock prices, particularly grain, cotton and sugar. Wheat recovered sharply from its low price, and was up 1ft to 1ft cents as compared with Tuesday.
Among individual issues to be particularly, higher were Eastman Kodak, American Tobac-
increase which may have been in part due to thte depression of 1908.
“The expenditures of our participation in the World War were of vast proportions, and our debt mounted more than 10 times as high as It did during the Civil War. Once more reduc-i tions began as peace returned, and they con-tinud down to 1930. Last year and this year i our national budget has again been out of balance, and the national debt has been rapidly increasing. Its rate of increase has been proportionately more rapid than It was in the depressions of the '70s and of the '90s. The need for a genuine balancing of the budget has become acute." *
Chiysler Features Strength in Auto Group
Chrysler Corp, stood out among automotive shares, advancing rapidly to above 7, after a close of 6% on Tuesday. The strength in the issue was due principally to the fact that Chrysler was the only manufacturer whose car sales at retail in the first four months of the current year topped those in the corresponding period of 1931. The gain was due to the popularity of the new Plymouth and DeSoto lines.
From the standpoint of operating results thus far in the current year, however, Chrysler fared less favorably than in 1931. In the first quarter it reported a net loss of (2,066,455, after charges, as compared with a deficit of $979,927 in the similar period of 1931. Its finances, however, continued strong, with current assets as of March 31, last, being equal to better than $5 for each $1 of current liabilities. Its holdings of cash and marketable securities, alone amounted
co B. Allied Chemical, Auburn, J. I. Case, Am- to M6,210.790 and aurplue totaled 189,849,608.
, erican Telephone, U. S. Steel, Westinghouse Electric and Woolworth, all of which disclosed j gains of full points or more.
j Tobacco Shares Show Improvement
Steel Trade Review Not Encouraging
The weekly review of the steel trade held forth little encouragement for an early 1m-provement in business. Financial and political I	ioojMxro onervs anuw junprwcmeni.	. .	. . .	•	_ ...._
Shares ot leading tobacco companies, Amer-1	were reportedto be throttW
I lean and R. J. Reynolds, have shown Improve-j virtually every activity on which the steel mills I ment in sympathy with the general market I trend. The government report on cigarette consumption for May, to be published about June 20, probably will not be very encouraging In view of the failure of business to make any progress in that month. On the other hand, rumors of wholesale cigarette price reductions have been around so long now that their depressing effect has worn off and a price change is , being discredited. Suggestions that wholesalers should cut prices to aid the retailer are amusing when It is recalled that just a year ago it was argued a price advance would aid the retailer.
While consumption of cigarettes declined at an increasing rate in the first four months of 1932, price reductions to the consumer have been effected by the retailer giving up his profits, and It Is doubted in tobacco circles that any price reduction which the manufacturers could make would bring back the consumption lost because of reduced purchasing power of consumers.
Budget Balancing In Other Depressions	In the first quarter Gillette’s net income was
Unbalanced budgets resulting from severe ; equal to 66 < ents a share on common, or more business depressions are not new in this country. > than double the current rate of dividend paystates Col. Leonard P. Ayres, vice president of Cleveland Trust Co. We had experience with them in the long depression of the 70s. and again in that of the ’90s, he points out. “They have left their records in the reports of the Treasury Department on the fluctuations in our national
was esti-the week excepting moderate
depend for business. Ingot output mated st 18%, compared with 20% before. The automobile industry, Ford, had not realised even its own expectations, based upon the amount of steel ordered from mills. Nearly everywhere further evidence of large scale curtailment was evident.
Macy ran up sharply on the declaration of the regular dividend to above 22, for a gain of more than 3 points. The Street had entertained some doubt as to the payment in view of the drastic curtailment in sales volume this year.
Gillette Business Holds Well
Gillette Safety Razor Co. common was a strong spot among specialties, although in immediately preceding sessions it had been subject to selling pressure. The company's sales are holding up well, probably slightly better than a year ago. Income in the current quarter, in consequence, assuming a continuance of satisfactory operations to the end of June, is likely to be up to that in the initial three months of this year.
I
ments. It also was an improvement as com* pared with the similar period in 1931. The company’s finances continue strong from the standpoint of liquidity, with cash and marketable security holdings alone approximating $8,000,000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.