The Markets: Rise in Stocks Reaches Broadest Proportions on Current Rise With All Leaders at
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 8, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
Rise in Stocks Reaches Broadest Pr oportions on Current Rise With. All Leaders at 'Nexc Highs
Saturday’s advance in the stock market was one of the broadest since 1930. Buying; came into every department and from every section of the country. The tape was seven minutes behind in the last 15 minutes, and niany stock exchange firms with skeleton forces found It difficult to handle the rush of business. The fact that the New York Telephone 'Co. in the last few weeks reports more installations than losses of telephones in the southern Manhattan district evidences the increasing business.
At times the advance was frenzied, some rails going up points between sales.	,
It is obvious that shorts who still are holding to their positions are suflft?rlng acutely. The Street believes the short position in many stocks is still as large as it was a month ago, 'a belief which the Exchange’s figures on the short Interest as of August tends to bear out.
Advance in wheat, cotton and other commodities was a strong factor behind the soaring stock prices. While bonds were strong there are many in the Street who feel this department is behind when compared with the rise in stocks, and that if the advance in the latter is to be sustained, bonds will have to go considerably higher in the near future.
There is also a widespread belief that, with ^helves hare of inventories in many lines, a sustained rise in the market might lead to a scramble for goods.
Sold out bulls have been increasing in number consistently. They, together with the short interest still fighting the advance, make for con-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
slderable potential buying if the rise continues. Allied Chemical Buying
Considerable investment buying of Allied Chemical & Dye has taken place in the last few weeks in the belief that the $6 dividend will be maintained in 1932 and that earnings will closely cover distribution. Should trade pick, up this fall, the dividend may be covered with a margin to spare.
Allied probably ranks as the lowest cost domestic producer in each of its three major product lines: alkalis, coat tar products and synthetic nitrates. More than 50% of Allied’s revenues is derived from its heavy chemical division. While substantial improvement in earnings in these divisions is not in near-term prospect, products are essential to a 1 arge variety of processing industries, which insures expanding sales and profits under more normal general business conditions
Sold Out Bulls
There is a large crop of sold out bulls in the Street at the moment. These bought stocks fairly, early in the current advance and in the last few days took their profits on the assumption that the market was "going too fast.” Some of these got out 10 points under current prices of some stocks and this has been particularly the case ’ in American Telephone & Telegraph which has gone ahead more rapidly than most issues Some of these sold out longs are getting restive and If the market continues at its present pace these will be buying again at higher prices
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.