The Markets: Stocks Rise Sharply with Commodity Markets Farm ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 14, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Stocks Rise Sharply rctth Commodity Markets—Farm Equipments and Western Rails Strong—Volume Largest Since June 15
Faris bourse Inactive but flrm,
Improvement In bonds and bank stocks, and In principal commodity markets—wheat and cotton—was communicated to stocks on the New York Stock Exchange where prices moved up sharply with substantial gains being scored on a broad front. Trading volume approximated 1,000,000 shares, the largest since June 15, last, a marked pick-up materializing in the late afternoon.
Closing quotations on wheat were % higher than on Tuesday, while corn moved up 1% points and cotton advanced $1 a bale. Gains of fractions to full points were evident throughout the bank stock list, while Treasury 3%s gained 4 points, the 3s 16 points and 3Hs 23 points.	'
Farm equipment shares and stocks of sugar companies were conspicuously strong. J. I. Case moved up more than two points while International Harvester gained points. Among sugar stocks. South Porto Rico common was outstanding, attaining a new high for the year at ll’/a, up 1% points on the day. Cuban-American Sugar Co. also was turned over in substantial volume around 2, up ?*.
Developments at the nation’s capital were somewhat more encouraging indicating that an adjournment of Congress within a reasonably short time is in prospect. The prompt passage of a new Relief bill, meeting the views of the administration, would substantiate this belief. The new bill would eliminate the provision contained in the former draft which provided for loans by the Reconstruction Finance Corp, to individuals.
Among carrier shares, the principal sharp advances obtained in western roads, notably Northern Pacific and Atchison, which would derive benefit from the transportation of wheat and other agricultural supplies.
Domestic trade developments were mixed. ’ and included an estimate by Iron Age that steel operations arc up slightly at 16%, or at about the June average. Business failures, as compiled by Bradstreets, showed a decline in the past week as compared with a week earlier.
Hide Price Advance Will Aid V. S. Leather
The advance in hide prices in the past ten days, approximating 35% from the lows reached a short while ago, should prove beneficial to U. S. Leather Co., particularly from the standpoint of appreciation m inventory. With cattle prices moving upward, it is not unlikely that additional advances will be in order on hides. While purchases in hide markets have been substantial, some being made by dealers, the bulk has been by leather tanners and tanning shoe manufacturers.
The strength in hide prices abroad, within the past three weeks, also should prove beneficial to prices in this market. Europe has been a generous buyer of hides at the River Plate, m South America, and it is believed that foreign tanners have been operating in the American market also.
Supplies of leather in the hands of shoe manufacturers are at a low point and their purchases in recent months have been on a hand-to-mouth basis. With the fall and holiday season approaching, shoe manufacturers will be
compelled to come into the market for leather supplies on a more substantial scale.
Leather Common -Equity 915J52 A Share
U. S. Leather Co., the largest*- tanner of heavy leather ’in the world, has been doing better on sales volume recently. In the first quarter of the current year it reported a deficit of $23,173. For all of 1931 It sustained a net loss of $1,109,076. due largely to the necessity for writing down Inventory in line with market conditions. During that year the company took $1,811,720 from .general reserves in order to make a downward adjustment in inventory.
On the-basis of Its balance sheet as of December 31, last (the latest available), the 397,010 shares of no-par common stock had a book value of $6,163,381, excluding Insurance and general reserves, and after allowing for prior preference and Class A stock liquidation. This was equal to $15.52 a share on common. The liquidating value of the Class A shares, of which 247,169 were outstanding, was $12,326,762, equal to more than $49 a share.
The position of junior shareholders has been Improved this year by the retirement on .Turn* 29. last, of 83,178 shares of prior preference stock, which had been acquired in the open market. The purchases were made with surplus. and the company has decided to continue the purchase of such stock as excess properties are disposed of. However, prbperties will not be sacrificed in a bad market. Since the preferred stock was acquired at prices substantially below par it is probable that a transfer to surplus of the amount of the discount will be made.
Solvents, I. T. & T. and Gillette Gain
Among individual issues to display pronounced strength were Commercial Solvents, International Telephone & Telegraph and Gillette Safety Razor Co.
The upward move In Commercial Solvents represents accumulation by a strong group. Corn Products Refining Co., which holds a substantial block of the stock, had been reported as increasing its holdings but this has been denied by the company.
The price improvement in Gillette is predicated on the betterment in its business, par-ticiularly since the introduction of the new “blue blade.’’ Its profits have been holding well, with earnings showing the present rate of dividend payments more than 100% covered. The company’s finances, too, are strong with cash and its equivalent amounting to about $8,000,000.
International Telephone’s appreciation is based on the improvement in Europe, where the company has extensive interests, as a result of the reaching of an accord on debts at Lausanne.
Tidewater Stocks Gain on Improvement
The recent strength m both preferred and common stocks of Tidewater Associated Oil Co. reflects, besides improvement in the oil industry’ from the standpoint of prices and statistical position, the fact that the company has continued its policy of purchasing preferred stock m the open market for retirement.
Its balance sheet for June 30, hence, probably will show a further reduction in this outstanding issue. During 1931, Tidewater purchased in excess of 37.000 shares of its preferred stock for retirement. In addition, it held aunost 11.000 shares m the treasury, thus reducing the outstanding issue from 732.845 shares at the close of 1930, to 684.552 at the end of last year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.