Abreast of the Market
Edmondson, Richard E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 23, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 6	„ _	_
the Market
Abreast of
By Bichdrd E. Edmondson
London Stock Exchange was quiet. Steel iasues were in demand on 881*3% import duty. Royal Dutch rallied on Deterding statement.
Berlin Boerse waft strengthened by easier money following reduction in Bank of England rate. Bonds were actively bought.
Prices worked generally lower on the Paris Bourse.
Stocks again came under the Influence ol unsatisfied liquidation in the principal industrial shares during yesterday’s session. A further outburst of selling took place in issues of this class, apparently reflecting continued nervousness regarding the dividend policies of various outstanding corporations.
With U. S. Steel directors scheduled to meet for dividend action next Tuesday, the expectation that common payments would be suspended was translated into a further recession in the common stock to new low ground on the movement. Although no thought is entertained in banking circles identified with the management that U. S. Steel directors will alter the present $7 preferred dividend rate, Steel preferred also was heavy, dipping to a fresh low since 1907.
American Can also succumbed to additional pressure, reaching its lowest levels since 1926. Standard of New Jersey was another pivotal industrial which extended Its progress into new low territory for the 1929-32 major decline, selling at a record low for the present stock.
Renewed unsettlement in the bellwethers of the Industrial category impaired the recently improved tone displayed by the principal rails. Union Pacific and Atchison sold off sharply from Thursday's highs, and general setbacks occurred in other active issues of the carrier department.
While the market as a whole displayed a sluggish tone the greater part of the session, encouragement was derived from the fact that pressure was so highly localized. In previous stages of the deflationary movement over the last two and one-half years, penetration of previous resistance levels by pivotal shares had been followed by broad, urgent liquidation. With the market breaking away from this pattern, the theory was strengthened that the list was slowly drifting toward a permanent base. Banks Put Money to Work
Convincing evidence that banks will put excess reserves to work, even at a time when business Is showing no signs of improvement and prices are not rising, was shown by the $148,000,000 expansion in loans and investments of New York City banks this past week. On April 13, New York banks had $99,000,000 excess reserves. On April 20 the excess was only $41,000,000. In addition to using part of their excess reserves for additional loans and investments. these banks employed the $49,000,000 of increased deposits they received during the week.
Probably two most' significant Items in the New York member bank statement are the $47,000,000 Incroase in “all other loans” and the $30,000,000 gain In investments In npn-govern-ment securities. Former is the sharpest advance, with one week’s exception, since November, while the latter is a continuation of the rising trend of “investments in other securities” that started March 9, and which has amounted In all to $107,000,000.
Whether these investments were made in municipal and atate bonds, or in high grade corporate Issues, Is of little significance. The important point is that the pressure of surplus non-earning reserves, plus the declining yield on government securities, plus the rising expenses of Interest payments on expanding customers' deposits, has forced the banks to go outside the U. S. Government security field to find a reasonably profitable place for their money. This has had a stimulating effect on the bond market which has been clearly evident for a week.
Funds Flow to Interior
Equally important as the credit expansion by New York banks is the tendency for money to move out of New York City into Interior districts, and the coincident easing of credit tension in those districts. Banks outside of New York reduced their borrowings from the Federal Reserve by $64,000,000 last week, making total reduction since February 17 $261,000,000. In addition they have reduced borrowings from New York banks by over $100,000,000. Their reserve deposits last week increased $17,000,000. They withdrew $15,000,000 loaned to brokers in New York City.
This all means that the falling yield of money in New York, and'reviving confidence in the
stability of the national banking situation, are causing a reversal o.f money movements, Last autumn and early this winter, there was a distinct “flight of capital” from the country to New York which was as paralyzing to the country at large as any flight of capital from European Countries has been to such countries. Now capital is returning, and at an accelerated pace, due to Federal Reserve operations and the Reconstruction Finance Corp.
Increased Brokers’ Loans Bullish
In view of the further declines to new low levels for the depression in many sections of the share list during the week ended April 20, the increase of $19,000,000 in brokers’ loans during that period was regarded as a bullish indication. It was taken to mean that some marginal buying had appeared to absorb distress selling, and liquidation from strong boxes.
In the opinion of competent observers, additional accumulation of this kind will develop over the next four or five weeks. Many people are swinging to the belief that stock prices have been unduly depressed by despondency over business conditions, and are showing an increasing willingness to resort to borrowing for the purpose of taking a long position in standard equities.
With unfavorable dividend developments In prospect in the near future, most observers feel that the downward drift of prices may continue until the dividend uncertainties have been eliminated. When this has taken place, it is argued that the market may regard adverse dividend news as a factor that has been discounted, and that, consequently, a turning point may be reached when the last of the important nearby dividend announcements have been made.
v Expectations that weak spots during the next month will afford excellent buying opportunities have been heightened by hopes that increasing Ford production, and delayed buying generally, may bring a belated seasonal upturn in business. With trade activities proceeding at such low levels', it is felt that even a moderate expansion would have a tremendously stimulating effect on sentiment, Moreover, the aggressive easy money policy of the Federal Reserve is beginning to show results, and active credit expansion can be counted upon to spur revival in many branches of trade.
Individual Short Figures Studied
Interest in Wall Street regarding the figures on short accounts, made public by the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, centered on the operations of individual traders. In grain market circles, where‘Thomas M. Howell’s large scale dealings are well known, there was no surprise over the disclosure that he was short of 39,200 shares of General Motors.
Gossip in commodity quarters during the last few months has been that Mr. Howell had been active on the short side of GeneralJMotors, and, at the same time, was operatings on the long side of the wheat market on the crop damage in the Southwest. It was recalled that Mr. Howell had staged a successful “squeeze” in July com last summer, making profits estimated at approximately $1,000,000.
> He has been an outstanding figure on the Chicago Board of Trade for the past two decades, and for some years previous to 1929 also had been prominent as a stock operator. For the last two years, however, he has confined his activities mostly to grain.
Another name that held commodity trade interest was that of Arthur W. Cutten, leading Chicago operator in bqth stocks and grain. Mr. Cutten's short position as of April 8 was shown as 2,000 sbares(of du Pont, 2,000 American Telephone, and 2,000 Steel. During the Coolidge bull market, Mr. Cutten actively sponsored Montgomery Ward, Simmons, and other favorites. Of late, his security operations are supposed to have been substantially reduced.
George F. Breen, who was listed as short 10,000 shares of North American, is one of the best known market operators in the Street. Mr. Breen was active several years ago in the liquidation of the holdings of J. Ogden Armour, the Chicago pucker.
One item in the figures which attracted comment was the short position of 16,801 shares of Auburn in the name of E. A. Crawford & Co. E. A. “Doc” Crawford, who only recently was admitted to membership in the New York Stock Exchange, is better known In seaboard commodity circles. He has been afhong the major operators on the New York Cotton Exchange for many years, as well as trading extensively in grains.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.