Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 16, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Hi/ Richard E. Edmondson
a change in the fundamental character of the market.
Reserve Bond Buying Anticipated
In advancing to 85.82 at last Saturday’s close, industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages approximated the high of 85.88 reached on January 15. Further advances In the industrials at this time to above the January 15 level would suggest that the market was headed toward higher levels, with no important resistance indicated below the 95-figure. Latter would represent 50r4 recapture of the ground lost on the decline from November 9 to January 5.
If the industrials should prove able to surpass the 95-level in a substantial way, and receive confirmation from an upswing in the rails to around 45, a definite signal would be given that the major decline had been completed, and that the market had embarked upon a bull swing. Although suspending judgment regarding the likelihood that such an indication will be given, bullish observers feel that the market should at least round out the intermediate recovery started on January 5. which would mean an advance in the industrials to between 90 and 95.
Hopes in this respect have been strengthened by the expectation that the Federal Reserve authorities will shortly begin an energetic campaign to ease credit conditions through open market purchases of bills and government securities. Plans for such a program were suspended when intimations that they were contemplated started extensive gold withdrawals from this country.
However, under the proposed revisions of the Federal Reserve Act. ample supplies of “free gold” would be created by the change to allow government obligations to he deposited as 60rc coverage of Federal Reserve currency issues. Such a provision would eliminate any fear regarding gold requisitions on this country, creating the belief that the central banking authorities will make large purchases of government securities when the suggested revisions have been enacted. Buying of this kind would inject additional credit into the market on a scale that is counted upon to have a stimulating effect on business revival
Du Font’s Dividend Action
Action of du Font in declaring its regular quarterly dividend oi 81 a share on its common stock was in line with what was expected in informed circles. In some quarters, fear had been expressed that the reduction of the dividend of General Motor* common, in which du Font has a large investment, would be reflected in a corresponding scaling down by du Font This tear was dissipated, however, when it was recalled that du Pant’s earnings in 1931 exceeded its 84 annual dividend by 29 cents a share.
In addition, earnings of du Font during the current quarter from sources other than *ts investment in General Motors, promise to exceed the corresponding earnings for the initial quarter of 1931 These considerations led to the belief that the company for the present could maintain the current 81 quarterly without any great strain either on its strong cash position or surplus.
jR. J Reynolds Tobacco
'‘Release of the annual report of R .T Reynolds Tobacco Co provides an nppo”tunil.v to review the company's progress and analyze the factors affecting its future” savs E F. Hutton & Co	"
“Wh.ie many corporations are unable to show any profits, and when all but a selerted few favoied companies arc measuring their progress by the smallness of then earnings decline. R J. Reynolds registers its 11th consecutive earnings poult, the strongest financial position in its history and is earning and maintaining dividends at the highest level since its formation Reynolds has set a standard 1 earnings stability against which othci so-called depression-proof companies may compare their progress.
“Moreover, a careful analysis of the conditions influencing R. J Reynolds m the present and past depressions reveal that highly iavoi-able profits should be continued, even though business recovery is postponed for another year or two Not only is R. J Reynolds Class ”B,‘ stock attractive as a premier depression-proof investment, but. also, ns a leader in an industry which has a bright outlook for further substantial expansion. A close study of fundamental factors afiecting the growth of the cigarette industry indicates that the present consumption of cigarettes is not more than one-half of the consumption which can be ultimately expected ”
Security markets were featured at the start of the new week by an advance in TJ. S. government and Treasury obligations to new high levels for the year. This development served to alleviate any nervousness that the nation might be embarking* upon a program of unregulated inflation that would impair the government’s credit.
,It reflected the bloodless verdict of the market that instead of depressing high-grade fixed revenue securities, the proposed changes in the Federal Reserve law will have a sustaining influence on obligations of this kind. This thought was based on the fact that the contemplated revisions will enable the Federal Reserve authorities to ease credit conditions by accumulating government securities without fear of endangering the nation’s gold position. On the contrary, such operations will establish the banking system more firmly on a gold basis since the security purchases can be used to increase the supply of “free gold.”
In the share list, price movements reflected a healthy situation. Following the sweeping advances of the two previous sessions, the principal stocks engaged in a period of internal correction that was reassuring to people apprehensive that the upward pace might be overdone.
Extensive profit-taking came into the market during the morning, affording illustration of the temptation to profit-taking resulting from the sensational gains of last Thursday and Saturday. At the same time, substantial short selling was undertaken by traders feeling that technical conditions had been undermined by the recent abrupt upturn. That sizable additions were made to the short interest during the day was reflected in an Increase in the borrowing premium on American Telephone to of , against 1-16 of lr'<- at Saturday’s close.
rromptness Expected on Reserve Changes
With reactionary tendencies characterizing the general list through the morning, recessions of one to four points from the preceding close took place in Steel, American Telephone. Allied Chemical, Atchison, Now York Central and other leaders International Nickel sold off fractionally on the failure of directors to take action on the common dividend of five cents a share, due at this time. Kennccott also gave ground slightly on news that the board had taken no action on the dividend for the present quarter, having authorized a payment of 12 cents a share three months ago.
However, a supporting factor for the main body of stocks was supplied by Washington advices that the House would take up the new Federal Reserve bill under a suspension of the rules, which, would enable speedier adoption oi the measure. Trading lightened progressively on price recessions, and the steadier action of the market during the afternoon demonstrated tnat the list was in better shape as a result of the earlier setbacks.
Market Sentiment Continues Optimistic
Interests expecting continuation of an upward trend in the principal stocks attached considerable importance to the fact that Saturdav’j gams, as measured by industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages, amounted to 7 22 points This compared with the upswing of 6.80 points m the preceding session
For the first time since the major decline started in September, 1929, therefore, greater progress on the upside was made during the second day of a rally tnan during the first. For instance, on October 30. 1929. the principal industrials advanced 2S.10 points in the sensational rebound started by the action of Rockefeller interests m placing a supporting order of 1.000,000 shares in Standard ox New Jersey at 50. On October 31, however, the upturn amounted to only 15.04 points.
When the initial phase of the deflationary movement came to an end on November 13, 1929, the industrial average rallied IS.59 point*-on November 11. and 11 45 points on November 15. On Saturday, June 20, 1931. the pivotal industrials scored an uprush of S 65 points on the Hoover moratorium announcement, but gained only 6 S6 points on Monday, June 22.
When last autumn’s recovery was startec by news of the formation of the National Credit Corp., the industrial average spurted 12 points on October 6, but declined 2.02 points or October 7. In view of the precedent set in th if respect during preceding stages of primary downward movement, the ability of the rally ti carry through with increasing vigor on the second day was regarded as further evidence cl
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.