The Markets: Stock Markets Advances into Net High Ground, with ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 28, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Paris Bourse slight weaker. Xondozi market irregular and lower. British funds higher; oils react.
After some early hesitation with small volume prices again became strong and active with most of the pivotal shares going into new high ground. As the advance broadened. Business and T>ublic interest also increased.
About 1.700,000 shares were traded in, as against 1.500.000 the previous day. It was the largest day since June 3. when 1.886.000 shares were sold.
Among the rail shares. Union Pacific was an active feature, selling to a new high on the current advance which represents a rise of some 10 points in the past few weeks.
Tobacco shares were also active and strong. Allied Chemical & Dye was an active feature which sold into new high ground on the current advance.
The first 45 states to report June automobile registrations show that Plymouth increased 306% over June., 1931, according to the officials of that company.	z
Considerable short covering helped the market and such stocks as American Telephone & Telegraph where the large short interest existed brought out active covering. American Telephone & Telegraph moved into new high ground on the current advance.
Wheat was strong as were bonds, with U. S. Treasury bonds at a new high for the year. These gains undoubtedly were reflected in the stock prices.
Employment Situation Better
The Street is impressed with the increased employment reported here and there throughout the country. While the totals are not of sufficient proportions to suggest wholesale return of unemployment workers they are sufficiently spread throughout the country and in various industries to make the showing interesting. Undoubtedly the rise in certain commodities has gone a long way to help this situation. A number of New England mills has taken on additional workers. Furthermore. several industries are looking for stimulated business early In the fall and are preparing for it. Merchants’ stocks are at the lowest ebb for years and wholesalers have little to offer them.
The increased activity at the Radio Corp, manufacturing plant in Camden suggested that that company expects to increase its sales in the coming months. Of course, this is the time of year that radio manufacturing goes ahead in preparation for the last quarter’s sales which are always the largest even in depressed tunes. Radio inventories are small and the Radio Corp, has been operating with a view to keep inventories in hand.
American Telephone & Telegraph soared 4^. The Street argues that if the dividend is cut at the August 17 meeting it probably will be cut tn $8 and certainly not to less than $7. Even if business does not improve, the company should show earnings for 1932 of around S7.25, taking the unearned dividends of associated companies into consideration. A cut to $7 would save the parent company approximately $16,000.000 for the balance of the year.
Market Attitude Changing
James J. Phelan, of Hornblower & Weeks, says* “The stock market has now demonstrated its ability and disposition to respond to favorable news and per contra to overlook or even Ignore that of an unfavorable nature, such as poor earnings statements, etc ’’
Mr. Phelan states that activity has switched from the down to the upside and apparently
the various constructive happenings of the past six months, including favorable legislation, are beginning to register.
He says: “The Lausanne outcome is being now evaluated in its great importance in the world's economic situation. The promise of big crops at the lowest cost of production in years is beginning to be appreciated. In a word, we are really getting a grip on ourselves and as we do and to the extent we do. confidence will take the place of fear so long engulfing us. Personally. 1 look for better things in the security markets from now on, for some time.’*
Moving Picture Economies
Economies effected within the motion picture business now total approximately $18,000,000 annually. This estimate includes every department and office in the business here and abroad and includes all salary cuts. The industry’s leaders believe further cuts of $2,000,000 would be about the limit that could be obtained.
Oil Statistics
Oil statistics compiled by the American Petroleum Institute for the week ended July 23 showed a mixed trend. Production of crude oil, as the result of a sharp Increase in Oklahoma, was up 51,000 barrels to 2.205,850 barrels daily. Close observers of the oil industry are of the opinion that the rise was of a temporary character and that production during the current week will show a substantial decline. Despite the sharp nse, figures continued to make a favorable comparison with those for the corresponding 1931 period.
Stocks of gasoline, after several increases, resumed their downward trend and were off 97.000 barrels to a total of 62,455,000 barrels on July 23. This is taken to indicate that dealers who stocked up heavily in June in anticipation of the 1-ccnt federal tax which became effective late in that month have exhausted their supplies of motor fuel and have returned to the market as buyers. Gasoline quotations in the wholesale markets have recently shown a firmer trend, and, while they are off from the highs of the year, they are steady at levels well above the low’s and not far from the peak.
Consolidated Oil
Consolidated Oil was a feature in recent markets advancing into new high ground for the year. The company, which represents the merger of the Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corp., Prairie Oil Gas Co., and Prairie Pipe Line Co., reports only semi-annually. Forthcoming reports which will cover the five months period ended June 30. according to present indications, will show a good profit for common shareholders.
In the six months period ended June 30, 1931, the Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corp, reported a substantial loss after all charges. Prairie Pipe Line Co. reported net profit of round figures $3,000,000 which was down sharply from the previous corresponding six months. Prairie Oil Ae Ga*j Co . did not report earnings for the first half of 1931. hence no direct comparison can be made. However, it is safe to assume that operations of these three companies for the first six months of this year were on a much better basis this year than in the like period of 1931.
Consolidated Oil in addition to its offer to the creditors of the Richfield Oil Co. of California, now in receivership has made an offer to acquire the assets, properties and goodwill of the Rio Grande Oil for a consideration of 495.000 shares, or roughly two shares of Consolidated Oil common for five shares of Rio Grande common. The advance m market price of Consolidated common should greatly facilitate present negotiations with the Rio Grande stockholders
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.