Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 10, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Steritnc
Rubber Silk. Silver.
Sunar,
Wh*At Wool tops. Zinc. East
Cali monej
Forecasts of a strong* po-'t-election market, based partly on long-standing Wall Street tradition, went completely awry yesterday. Strength in the market evaporated after the first 20 minutes of trading, and stocks dropped abruptly for fairly sharp losses. They recovered, but closed not far above the day’s bottom prices, with losses in the leaders running up to around 4 points.
Bonds were irregular. Wheat and cotton eased. Wheat lost from	to 1% cents a
bushel, and closed not far from the day’s lows. Cotton gave a good performance in the face of the government’s crop report, which put the year’s outturn at an unexpectedly high figure. Cotton lost about $1 a bale before the report appeared. A further drop on the government figures was recovered before the close.
The opening found stocks generally higher than Monday’s closing prices, and interest in the market was evidenced by the appearance of sizeable blocks of stock In initial transactions. Union Carbide started at 253£. up a point, on a 1,500 share transaction. Allied Chemical, at 77, was up lk on 1,000 shares. Telephone, Radio, Anaconda, Standard Brands. United Aircraft and Steel were among other stocks which started out on blocks which ran up to 3,000 shares.
quarter was $11,100,342, pretty close to 50% of the total for the year as a whole.
Zinc Stocks Off, Output Up
Consumption of zinc picked up in October. This found reflection in the distinctly more encouraging figures issued on stocks and output in comparison with September. October output was about 1.800 tons ahead of September, but stocks at the end of the month were almost 4,000 tons below the level at which they stood at the end of September. They are more than 11,000 tons, or close to 10%, under the figure for the end of October, 1931. The clearing up of an oversupply of stock on hand is the first sign of major betterment in any industry.
General Motors Sales
General Motors* October sales to consumers fell about 22% behind September, but Wall Street was not so much concerned with actual sales to consumers as at was with the relationship between sales to dealers and consumers. Once again, a comparison of those figures recorded a clearing out of stocks in dealers’ hands.
Sales to consumers in October were 2S.941 caru and trucks, while sales to dealers were cut to 5,810, a spread of more than 21,000 cars. While the low point to which sales to dealers fell was due to a practical suspension of operations in preparation for the coming year’s program, the steady whittling down of stocks in dealers’ hands puts tbe company in a much better position to capitalize all the possibilities of the 1933 market.
In the first 10 months of this year, sales to consumers have been roughly 51,000 cars more than sales to dealers. Dealers’ stocks were cut down more heavily in October than in any month of the year so far.
How They Stand
Earnings reports, as compared with those for the corresponding periods last year, and dividend declarations compared with the previous
ones of leading companies, fellow’:
Decreased earnings . . Increased earnings . .. Unchanged dividends . Increased dividends . . Omitted dividends . . . Decreased dividends .
Since	Additions
Oct. 1	yesterday
441	6
92	IO
240	8
8	1
12	2
10	1
High and Low Prices
Wednesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, four stocks < Crown Cork & Seal common and preferred. Indian Refining and Owens-Ulmois Glass) made new* highs, and two stocks
(Holland Furnace and Plymouth Oil) made new lows, for the year 1932.
Opening prices were close to the day’s high, although the ’’beer” stocks managed to better them by a fair margin. The list, at the end of the first 20 minutes, was not much higher than at the start, and was churning around uncer-tamly.with the rails distinctly sluggish. Piofit-taking and selling camo in. and stocks dipped abruptly, many falling around 5 points from their early highs before effective support was encountered.
The break was followed by dullness and stocks swung in a narrow range, near their low’s, until the close. Special strength was shown by Aviation Corp., which closed up more than a point in unusually active trading. North American Aviation, too, was strong. Owens Illinois Glass managed to close up fractionally, but it was off almost 2 points from the high.
Little Favorable N<‘WR
Wall Street was inclined to pay attention to the day’s business news. It included the Telephone companj'’s report that October installations showed a larger falling off than they did in September. The Dow-Jones estimate put steel production, for the week ended Monday, a shade under that of the previous week. A decline is usual at this time.
Railroad loadings figures attested to a further seasonal falling off, and the General Motors October sales figures indicated that the company’s operations for the month were unprofitable.
A firmer tone in the copper price situation, and betterment in some commodities offset the more discouraging items. The rise in hog prices continued for the sixth consecutive day.
Markets abroad were mixed. In Berlin, the beer company shares led the Boorse higher. In London, copper stocks were strong with the rest of the stock list irregularly lower and British funds off. The Pans bourse was heavy.
Boer and Light Wines
c The sweeping victory scored by the “wet” forces Tuesday was almost as great as the Roosevelt triumph, and it had a prompt effect markctwisc, both here and abroad. The stocks which the Street estimates would be affected most promptly by modification of the prohibition laws went on another spree as trading got under way, but some sold off later.
Owens Illinois Glass opened on a block of 800 shares at 38, up ~R. National Distillers was at 22^;, on a 500-share transaction; Crown Cork & Seal, at 20was up while U. S. Industrial Alcohol, on a 1.000-share transaction, started at 30 U, up a full point.
In Germany, there was a rush to buy the breawing company shares. Schulteiss stock was up 8 to SB1*-. and Oechsner, another big beer company stock, pushed ahead on the Berllo Boerse.
‘‘Purely	Gossip'9—
Statisticians are looking into the possibilities of stocks which will be immediately affected by the modification of the X olstead Act and the possibilities of eventual abolishment of prohibition. One firm had a cable from London asking for details on such »nnrcs.
* * •
There was some disappointment with the fact that American Telephone & Telegraph reported heavier station losses for October than were shown in September, indicating that the turn upward that occurred m the latter month was not maintained. On the other hand it is expected that the company will declare the regular $2 25 dividend when directors meet next u eck.
•	•	9
Several heads of leading grocery chain stores have been in conference with those in authority concerning the handling of beer and at least one important company has offered to handle bottled beer with little or no profit as an advertising medium.
*	• •
National Dairy Products will meet for dividend action today and since earnings to date have covered the distribution the regular payment is probable. Price difficulties in various districts throughout the country continue.
* • *
Brokers were disappointed with the public interest m the market and said it had again become largely a professional affair
In line with the hand to mouth basis of doing business several textile concerns xsay that retail stores are actually short of many lines of needed goods throughout the country. Magazine Steel said General Motors units were short of cars and the Chevrolet could have sold 4 800 more cars in October had dealers been able to make prompt delivery.
—The broad Street Gossip
Union Pacific
Union Pacific directors meet for dividend action today, and Wall Street is looking for continuation of the current rate of $1.50 quarterly. However, the dividend must be put in the uncertain class.
Union Pacific will be one of the ernriers making a relatively good showing this year. The company not only derives a big income from its railroad operations, but also from its investments in affiliated and non-affiliated company securities. Income from railroad operations this year should be sufficient to meet all interest charges and cover about half the annual $3,981,724 dividend requirments on the road’s preferred stock.
Union Pacific’s income from its bond and note investments alone last year was $5,837,941, and it should be a littel higher this year. Its income from affiliated company dividends in 1931 was $7,195,073. In the first half of this year, Union Pacific took in $2,400,000 more in dividends from affiliates than it did in the similar period of 1931. If there is no change in the final half, jts dividends from affiliates will run to around $9,500,000 for 1932. With bond and note investment income of around $6,000,000, Union Pacific’s common dividend requirements at the $6 annual rate will be covered by a fair margin this year.
Within two weeks, the report of the road’s October operations will make its appearance. It should be comparatively good. Union Pacific’s final quarter is usually the best, from the standpoint of rail operations. In 1931, Union Pacific’s railway operating income in the final
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.