Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 24, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
With the speculative community in doubt as to the technical effect of1 the new Stock Exchange rule on share lending;, trading; in the main body of stocks came to a virtual standstill yesterday. Volume fell off substantially, and the principal shares moved in a generally narrow range.
Developments in the business news over the week-end, and Monday's holiday, were mixed in character. Fisher’s ’wholesale commodity price index advanced during; the week ended February 19 to 63.7, from 63.6 the preceding; week, the first gain since tbe week ended November 13, 1931. On the other hand, the magazine "Steel” reported a decrease in steel operations to 25%, from 27% a week ago. reflecting the lack of sustantial demand from the railroads and automobile manufacturers. However, this factor was cited as an element of future strength when these industries begin to place normal orders.	-
Considerable unsettlement was created during the morning by a further bad break in Auburn. Following its 10-point decline in Saturday’s session, the latter again displayed a thin market, extending its downward movement more than 13 points. But pivotal shares developed increasing resistance to Auburn’s influence toward noon. Steel. American Telephone, and other leaders recaptured their earlier losses, and rose above Saturday’s final levels.
Trading Turn* Increasingly Dull
However, improvement in the general list was followed by a steady shrinkage in trading activity. Transactions up to 1:30 o’clock dropped to 700,000 shares, against 1,800,000 shares in the corresponding period of last Friday’s session.
Expectations that short selling would be limited under existing conditions found reflection in the sale of a Stock Exchange seat at S140.000, a decrease of 521,000 from the previous transaction. Further unsettlement was created in the late afternoon by fresh selling m tbe wake of good-sized declines xn wheat prices.
Greater activity picked up in the principal stocks, which worked generally below the levels at which resistance had been encountered during the morning. Steel, American. Can, New York Central, American Telephone, and other pivotal shares reached new lows on the movement during the last hour, and the market was characterized by a reactionary tone in the final dealings.
Quieter Markets Anticipated
Opinion was general m Stock Exchange circles that trading in the mam body of stocks in coming weeks would be characterized by a relatively light turnover. This thought was based on the belief that the new ruling concerning share lending would tend to restrict speculative activity. It was also actuated by the feeling that public participation in the market would continue small until definite indications appeared of gradual improvement in business.
However, noticeably increased optimism is developing in the financial community regarding trade prospects Powerful forces are at work to bring about economic reconstruction, and these measures are expected to exercise a growing stimulus on commercial enterprise by creating more confident sentiment throughout the country.
Among the factors that are counted upon to promote the return of better times, the greatest importance is attached to the Glass-Steagall bill to liberalize the eligibility provisions of the Federal Reserve Act In addition to affording a check to further defiaton in banking credit, this measure will provide an increase m the nation’s supply of ’’free gold” to an extent that will obviate any fears regarding foreign with
drawals. With this accomplished, the central banking authorities wall be in position to go ahead with open market purchases of government securities that will operate influentially to ease money conditions, and stimulate a flow of credit into industrial channels.
Better Rail Earnings in Prospect
Next in weight to the proposed revision in the banking laws is the organization of the Reconstruction Finance Corp., under the presidency of General Dawes. Through the operations of this new government agency, widespread credit assistance wall be given to corporations on a scale that seems likely to aid the influences as making for Increasing business activity in the spring months.
Developments in February demonstrated the revival in public confidence already accomplished, as reflected in the decided reduction in banking failures, and the decrease in hoarded funds. Moreover, the voluntary 10% wage cut accepted by railway employes became effective this month, and will favorably affect railroad earnings after the January reports are out of the w-ay. In fact, many authorities now feel that the January statements of the principal roads may prove to be the turning point that will be followed by substantially improved showings as the year progresses.
In addition to the wage reduction, the credit position of the weaker roads will be strengthened by both the Reconstruction Finance Corp, and the Railroad Credit Corp. In view of this situation, investment interests are taking long-pull positions in railway securities in the belief that existing prices represent bargain levels that wall not be available when rising traffic figures make improvement in the transportation field patent to all.
Tax Factor Unfavorable
On the unfavorable side of the economic picture is the necessity for increased taxation to meet the huge deficit in prospect as a result of the downward revision of estimates covering the government's receipts for the current fiscal year. Moreover, public purchasing power has been severely curtailed by widespread unemployment. and drastic deflation in security prices, and commodity values.
Under these circumstances, it is recognized that the process of effecting economic betterment must necessarily be tedious However, it is felt that the groundwork has been built for eventual recovery through the sweeping readjustment of the last two years.
In support of this viewpoint, figures are cited showing that the total market value of listed shares at the end of January was $27,000,000,000. against $90,000,000,000 m September. 1929, a drop of $63,000,000,000. or 70%. In the same period, listed bond values decreased $10,000,000,000. making a total depreciation m Stock Exchange securities of about $73,000,000,000. With this sweeping deflation accomplished, it is argued that reconstruction work can be pursued with the thought that it will not be handicapped by recrudescence of forced liquidation of convulsive character.
Westinghouse Electric
Business of Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co has shown little improvement over the low j rate at which orders were received in the final ; three months of 1931. November, December ’ and January orders represented tbe low ebb of the present depression for Westinghouse. Direc- • tors of the company meet today at 11 a m.. but only routine business is scheduled. Dividend action was postponed from late m December until early January, this year, to bring all dividend declarations and payments for 1932 into this vear.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.