The Markets: Price Advance Broadens With Accelerated Trading--Oils a ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 23, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
Price Advance Broadens With Accelerated Trading—Oils a Feature—Some Carriers Get Into ATrtc High Ground
London market higher, British funds firm; German bonda strong-.
Berlin Boerse quiet, with better tone but small turnover.
Paris Bourse generally firm.
The stock market exhibited the broadest advance with the largest volume of activity noted in some time. Besides short covering, the public undoubtedly took a hand in the proceedings in a mild way.	“
The rise was enjoyed by practically every department of securities, and many shares went tc new higns on the current advance.
The Street was pleased with the Interstate Commerce Commission decision in regard to the four-pai ty rail groupings in the East, and the carrier shares and bonds reflected this sentiment by advancing, quite substantially in many instances. Union Pacific sold at a new high on the current advance, with a fairly large volume of the stock changing hands. Atchison reflected considerable odd-lot buying which has been going on in the last few weeks for investment purposes.
American Leads Tobacco Issura
Tobacco stocks continued to advance on mexierato dealings with American Tobacco issues easily the favorites.
Allied Chemical was strong Followers of the stock now believe that although the company may not quite cover the .$6 dividend in the current year, the usual rate will be maintained throughout 1932
Oils were among the strongest spots on the list The Street was pleased with the six months’ statements of these companies thus far reporting.
Short covering of American Telephone & Telegraph was noted and there was some aggressive bidding for the shares at times. The Street feels that, whatever action the directors may take on August 17. the stock has quite discounted even a reduction m the dixldcnd to ST.
Federal Reserve banks are pursuing a more moderate policy of open market operations last week’s purchase of government securities having amounted to only X15.000.000. or an amount insufficient to offset currency expansion of $21.-nnn nnn.	’	’
The week’s figures would seem to point clearly to a transfer of deposits from the smaller banks to large city institutions. The country banks were apparently responsible for the increased borrowings from Reserve banks, while the reported gain of S21.000.u00 in reserve deposits was more than accounted for by increases of $22,000,000 and $20 000.000 by reporting banks in New York City and Chicago. ie«pertixely In other words, excess reserves are piling up in the large centers
R. I*'. C. Hopes Stimulate Baldwin
liming m Baldwin Locomotive .shares recently w is attributed to prospects tnat a wax may be found foi the Reconstruction Finance Corp to ler.d funds to carriers to purchase and repair needed equipment Such a possibility is being studied at the present time ry officials of the Railway Business Association and the
American Railway Association. Object of the study, which was begun some weeks ago, is to determine w’hether the roads can in this manner purchase 1,000 locomotives and 100,000 freight cars, in addition to repairing 100,000 cars. Baldwin operations continue at a low rate although the management is constantly reducing cost. The economies undoubtedly will be reflected in earnings when business again starts on the upgrade.
Sun Oil's Report Cheers
Sun Oil’s report for the first half of the year showed net income of better than $2,000,000, as against profits of $1,000,000 in the corresponding period a year ago. As the first report of a major oil company to be issued for this period and as am index to the gains enjoyed by the petroleum industry generally, the statement was received as one of prime interest in the Street.
It is perfectly obvious that despite the lack of news there is a better feeling in the Street, based probably in part on the good recovery in the bond market as well as on indications of a better spirit of cooperation among railroad executives and on the Interstate Commerce Commission four-party eastern railroad consolidation plan.
Freeport Texas nt 5 Tinies Net
Strength in Freeport Texas reflected expectations that the regular dividend of 50 cents would be declared at the meeting of the directors next Thursday. Earnings are understood running some 50% ahead of dividend requirements. On this basis the stock, at 15. is selling at five time earnings.
The Street regards the German dictatorship a* a constructive move rather than a coup of the militarists and feels that those who are in control are among the most orderly and businesslike elements* in the nation. It has accomplished one important factor, that of uniting the Reich and the Prussian Governments under one head somthing which has not been true of Germany since the monarchy passed
According to official advices. Sear* Roebuck’s operations for all this year are hkelv tn ’hnw a moderate profit. The declining trend of dollar sales probably will continue through August
Montgomery Ward officials likewise see no evidence indicating a near-term reversal in the nnwnwara trend of dollar sales but long-term prospect* are viewed more hopefully as a result ol higher prices for farm products.
Radio Allies Off 10”; In 35”',
Radio sales m the current year are from 20 to 35', below the totals for the corresponding period a year ago Much of the decline can be accounted tor by the drop in the average retail price of th«- receiving *et which is down about Go*. In addition, t lie best selling items continue to be the cheaper, and more compact set> *angmg from 325 to ?6o Sales in the low ex Held easily average t>5'< of the total
Some manufacturers believe that the total of raeio «ate« this yom w ill not he far awnv : rnm tne 1931 total which was «ppr»ixiniatclv v.ioonitnov. This compares with 560,000.000 in 1922.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.