Abreast of the Market
Edmondson, Richard E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 11, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
Abreast of- the Market
Bn Richard E. Edmondson
has a large number of stockholders scattered throughout the country, and it is feared that considerable investment liquidation may come after the meeting it omission of common disbursements is deemed advisable.
But notwithstanding the general opinion that the market is unlikely to make a permanent turn for the better until the Steel annAunce-ment is out of the way, experienced students feel that the list has been working itself into a position from which a sharp intermediate recovery could be seen.	'
Up to Friday’s close, stocky had made new lows for eight successive sessions, and1 even in the most violent stages of the six
No little excitement was stirred up in the speculative community at the week-end by the sudden decision of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee to begin an immediate investigation of the factors that entered into the recent decline in security values. This development caused a flurry of covering on part of less courageous shorts, and the principal stocks staged extensive gains at the opening.
However, more experienced operators were too well aware of the real reasons for the present state of the security markets to feci any concern over, the attitude of Congress. They knew that uo inquiry could eliminate the fact that the world-wide economic depression	___ ______ ______
was primarily responsible for the low levels to I previous bear swings, the list seldom ran so 	~	■ iong. as thfs without staging some sort of a recovery. Moreover, the decline during the past week has amounted to 22%, against an average of about 12% to 15% in the three preceding weeks. This acceleration In the pace of the downward sweep also points to the probability of an early recoil against the trend. In the event that a rally does develop in the near fu-— .......	..ture, it is felt that its staying qualities will
placed prospective winter wheat production ns depen(j on happenings at Washington, and on of April 1 at 458,000,000 bushels. This com- progress already made in absorbing distress pared with a 1931 output of 787,000.000 buahels, liquidation that has been overhanging the and the five-year average 1924-28 of 551,000,000 j bushels.	'	.	.	_
Wheat prices staged sweeping advances on this evidence of the strongly’ bullish statistical position of the major cereal. Com also developed a greatly improved lone, and the buoyancy of the grain markets reacted favorably on trading in the share list.
Renewed selling came into individual stocks as the brief session progressed. Union Pacific was under special pressure, breaking to a further new low since 1900.	... J "
port came into pivotal shares backs, and rallying tendencies selves in the final hour.
Wheat Surplus Being
Issuance of the Department of Agriculture’s official crop report, indicating a domestic winter wheat prospect, as of April 1. of only 458,000, 000 bushels, or 329,000,000 bushels less than last season’s bumper harvest, and representing | the smallest output since 1925, offers another j definite link in the chain of evidence indicating I that the United States is gradually working' out of its record wheat surplus.
Although spring planting has only just begun in the Northwest, on a basis of official condition figures, the prospect there is for a spring wheat output of about 253,000,000 bushels. This, however, may vary by 50,000,000 bushels either way before harvest time. Thus, present indications are for a total domestic wheat crop of 711,000,000 bushels.
With exports running at their present pace, and seed and feed needs normal, it is probable that the United States wheat surplus on July 1 next will approximate 418,000,000 bushels, as compared with 334,000,000 bushels on July 1, 1931, However, the total supply of wheat will be only 1,129.000,000 bushels on July 1. 1932. or 97,000,000 less than the 1.226,000,000 bushels available last year at that date.
Moreover, the winter wheat crop has undergone further deterioration since April 1 owing to high winds and dust storms in the vital Kansas and Nebraska belts. Present prospects, with no as yet, winter figures.
A 711.000.000-bushcl total crop would be only about 11.000,000 bushels over home needs. In no crop year in the present century have United States exports fallen under 100,000,000 bushels, while in some seasons they have exceeded 300.000,000 bushels. Thus, exports will undoubtedly make further inroads into the surplus, a considerably less portion of whi.b will be held by the Farm Board this July than last, owing to extensive sales in the Intervening period. Competition from this source thereby will be contracted. Moreover, of the surplus. 125.000,000 bushclB Is normally figured as a "safe” carryover in the event of a succeeding crop catastrophe.	1
Rally Prospects Appraised
Although Wall Street has resigned Itself to the expectation that United States Steel directors will suspend common dividend payments at the April 26 meeting, many observers believe that the main body of stocks will probably continue unsettled until the final decision of the management is made known. United States Steel j sions.
I which stock prices had fallen. , Consequently, i they refused to become perturbed over any dis! closures that might be brought out by the Wash-1 ingtoh hearings.
After the urgent covering of the early dealings had subsided, price movements again came 1 under the influence of fundamentals. A factor of genuine stimulation was afforded in the government crop report, issued late Friday, which
However, good supon moderate set-reasserted them- j
Reduced
rain during the critical growing period are undoubtedly for wheat output than
an even smaller the government
domestic wheat
Strong Box Selling Indicated
People who closely watch the character of transactions on the Stock Exchange have noticed recently that liquidation of impaired margin accounts has been a negligible factor in the recent further declines in stock prices. This situation has been plainly shown by the Federal Reserve figures on brokers' loans, which have; registered virtually no change over the last five weeks, in which period share values, as measured by industrials used In the Dow-Jones averages have depreciated 30%.	,
Since the start of the major decline in September, 1929, brokers’ loans dropped from a peak of $6,800,000,000 to last week's total of $516,000,000, a shrinkage of''V3'7c. Industrials . used in the Dow-Jones averages fell from 381 “ | to the current low of around 62, a decrease of
I In previous phases of the deflationary move-I ment, a definite relationship existed between I the course of brokers' loans, and that of the j industrial averages. But the fact that stock ! prices have recently depreciated so substanti-1 1 ally without any corresponding reduction in col-1 lateral borrowings Is taken as evidence that the liquidation has not been coming from Stock Exchange marginal accounts, but from strongi boxes of private investors, from investment trusts, and from security loans that banks had been carrying.
Constructive Developments Listed
Sentiment in the financial community, which showed notable improvement following the stabilization of banking conditions effected by the Glass-Steagall bill, has lately relapsed into a state of profound discouragement. With stock prices breaking to new low levels for the depression, a disposition has been shown in trading circles strongly to emphasize the unfavorable features of the economic situation, particularly the additional setbacks recently suffered by operations in basic industries.
Harassed by the fresh outburst of liquidation in securities, and nervous over the restrictive possibilities of tax proposals in the House, Wall Street has been in no mood to take cognizance of various constructive factors in the recent news. Among the favorable happenings listed as worthy of greater consideration by the market, with reference to their future influence on security values £pd general business, are the following:
1.	The confirmation of the position already taken by the American Legion against the new cash bonus plan.
2.	Reassurance by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation on railroad solvencies.
3.	Favorable committee action for retroactive abolition of the recapture clause of the Interstate Commerce Act and alteration of the rate making base on which the Interstate Commerce Commission sets rates.
4.	Launching of a program to Increase automobile sales, with Ford orders reaching the 300.000 mark.
5.	Bank failures continue nominal, with total deposits again increasing last week.
6.	Criticism by Secretary of the Treasury Mills and others on the objectionable features of the tax bill, with its probable effects on the Senate toward modifying unfavorable provi-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.