Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 7, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Constructive forces in the stock market continued to hold sway and many shares advanced to new highs on their current advance. Volume was moderate with some shares quite active.
There was a growing interest in many groups which hitherto have not taken part in the general strength. Drug and allied shares were to the fore with most of them scoring substantial advances.
After a firm opening the market gathered strength under the leadership of Steel, American Telephone & Telegraph and other pivotal issues and volume increased with higher prices.
In the final 15 minutes of trading, prices went into new high ground for the current advance. The Dow-Joncs industrial average at 88.49 was at a new 1932 high, and the utilities at 35 85 also reached a new high for the year. Rails participated in the advance, and became increasingly active, the average being 38 65, against a 1932 high of 41.30.
Traction shares continued to advance on fairly active trading and the bonds of these issues took part in the advance. Most of the traction shares attained new high positions on the current advance.	•
Deferring of the Cuban Telephone common dividend did not affect the parent. International Telephone & Telegraph common. Returns from this dividend amount to only a few cents a share on the International Telephone & Telegraph shares. Business in Cuba has naturally suffered considerably from the fall in sugar prices and the general economic situation on the island.
American Telephone & Telegraph was one of the steadiest shares on the list, with a continuation of investment demand throughout the country’. The company is steadily adding to its list of stockholders, which today is in excess of 645.000.	’
There has been some talk of financing by some of the Bell System subsidiaries, notably New York Telephone Co. The move is unfounded. No financing is under consideration at this time. The American Telephone &. Telegraph Co., and many of the associated companies maintained large cash asset positions over the last year m anticipation of their needs in forthcoming construction and improvement programs.
Radin Preferred Dividend Deferred
For the second time the directors of the Radio Corp, of America have deferred action on the quarterly dividend of S7Jf cents on the $50 par Radio preferred *‘A'’ stock, due at this time. They’ will meet again March 3 8 to take action. It is understood that in spite of the poor last quarter the “A” dividend requirements were amply covered in 1931. but owing to the RKO financing undertaken by the Radio Corp . the company’s cash reserves were considerably reduced. Furthermore, business, while somewhat better, is none too flourishing The quarterly payment on the ••A” dividend calls for a distribution of but 8343.325.
The company has been roorganzing Its personnel as well as consolidating several important subsidiaries and departments in an effort to reduce expenses and coordinate its many interests.
It has been estimated that there were 0 420 -000 radio sets, with a value of $309,270,000 sold in the "United States last year by the industry against 3.827.000 sets, with a value of $500,951.500. in 1930. The popularity of lower-priced sets had much to do with this, for parly* in 1930 the bottom dropped out of th*» radio receiving set business and huge distress sa^s occurred
throughout the country at big loss for all hands in the trade. Since that time prices have apparently attained levels that are attractive to buyers and the change from battery to electrical sets has been going on steadily.
Columbian Carbon Strong
Columbian Carbon was another strong feature- The earnings’ statement for 1931 will be issued around the 15th of this month. For the nine months ending last September the company reported net income after all deductions of $1,406,015, equivalent to $2.61 a share on 538,420 shares. For the full year earnings of about $3 a share are indicated. The company early' in January reduced the quarterly dividend to 75 cents from $1. It is reported that an active New England operator has switched his market activities from Gillette to Columbian Carbon.
Group activity in Drug, Inc , was indicated by an advance to a new high on the current move based on reports of a marked improvement in the business in recent weeks. There is a marked tendency’ for investors to switch out of stocks with reduced dividends and doubtful prospects into those companies which have mam-taind earnings at a more stable rate.
Directors of Western Union Telegraph Co. will meet on Tuesday to act on the quarterly’ dividend. The stock now is on a $6 basis. The Street is divided in its forecasts of what the late will be. Some believe that it will be cut to $4 -while others think it will be maintained. Business has not been good m the first quarter but on the other hand wage cuts went into effect late in 1931 which will result in big savings to the company’.
The dividend is likely to be declared on a basis of the outlook for future business ratner than on current results. The company’s plant is in good shape and outside of the usuai expenditures to keep it so the company probably will not be called on to undertake any heavy construction. It is unlikely the company* will have to do any financing in the present year.
Few Equipment Purchases Likely
The equipment manufacturers stand little chance of receiving orders from railroads in any* sizable amounts in the near future. The roads not only have allowed a large number of locomotives to remain impaired but they* still have substantial amounts of equipment in white lead awaiting a pickup in business. The New York Central has 1.105 impaired locomotives, or 35.7'r of the number owned by* the road. Despite this it still has 263 serviceable locomotives stored m white lead. As an aid to employment the road has added to its maintenance forces although it does not need additional equipment in good repair in the near future.
Usual Allied Chemical Dividend Looked For Directors of Allied Chemical & Dye Corp meet to act on the quarterly* common dividend late this month and the Street expects the usual $1 50 a share to be declared. While several departments in 1931 suffered keenly as a result of the depression others did fairly well and the management's efforts toward economies and low costs have helped greatly. There is no official suggestion of what the showing last year was. but it is believed that the company* will show around $6 a share earned on the common stock which figure is the dividend rate. The company has no need for money for it has a large total of ’’cash assets and its plant has been kept in tip-top shape.
Activities at the Hopewell nitrate plant have been stepped up to around 75't of capacity owing tn the substantial orders the company has booked for nitrates abroad
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.