DOLLAR SHORTS RUSH TO COVER: FOREIGN PURCHASES OF AMERICAN STOCKS . Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 29, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
DOLLAR SHORTS
RUSH TO COVER
Foreign Purchases of American
Stocks Spur Drop in Euro-
pean Currencies
Tn the most active session since cessation of the flight from the dollar in the middle of June, the entire list of foreign currencies broke to new lows on the move as the improvement in security prices'm this market and reassuring statements from Washington caused a rush to cover bear positions in <l*>llpr exchange.
Sterling cables broke 2^-* cents during the day to a new low on the move at $3.50^, while francs dipped to a new low for the year at $.039015-16, off 9-16 point. The market wag confused in early morning because of the wide spread among rates caused by the sharp drop in London. French francs were first quoted at $.0390 of slightly below the gold import point from Fans. The rate was out of line and incorrect and no business was done at that level. However, foreign exchange circles are firm in their belief that gold will shortly come from Fans on an exchange basis. Guilders broke below par for the first time on the move with a five point drop to $4 018 and belgas were steady but slightly lower at S 13S5. * Swiss francs are now the only gold Continental ab.»ze par against the dollar but the rate yielded two points to $ 1943’2.
When the drixe against the dollar early in May, a tremendous short position was built up in forward dollar exchange and it is estimated in some quarters that no attempt was made to cover approximately 75% of this position until this week. The forward sales of dollars were for the most part made on a 90day basis and the contracts will fall due at th** end of this week and next week.
The positions were kept open m the hope that the contracts could be extended at only a slight loss. Developments nf the past week, however, have strengthened the dollar to such an extent that speculators are being driven to cover even at a loss
Short Position Estimated
Estimates of the short position in dollar exchange are at best only rough guesses. At the heigbt of the flight from the dollar, the dollar was being sold from all quarters of the glooe and it is estimated that at one time the total position amounted to $1,000,000,000.
Much of this, of course, has been covered and wiped out by one means or another. Nevertheless. it is said that the French open short position alone in dollar exchange at the present time is easily from $100,000,000 to $200,000,000, anH possibly higher. This takes no account of short positions from other countries such as Switzerland and Holland.
Shorts are being driven to cover by the
Continued on Pose 2. C”
ft’ndrr o	of Symbols - same as abotf/*
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
DOLLAR SHORTS RUSH TO COVER From	I*nare + ♦ One ©
steady demand for dollar exchange resulting from foreign purchases of American securities. There is -a certain amount of arbitrage business going on but the volume is •small. Difficulty is being experienced in conducting arbitrage on any scale and brokerage houses reported it has been impossible to sell appreciable amounts of American securities in London because the spreads between London and New York have not been wide enough to yield a profit.
London Buying American Stocks
London has been buying American securities steadily for the past five weeks and the movement shows no signs of abatement. Substantial orders were received this morning from London following the sharp rise in prices on Wednesday afternoon.
- Amsterdam is both buying and selling. Bonds are not in favor with Amsterdam, but steady speculative buying in American stocks is reported from Dutch operators. Representative orders show a demand for issues such as Bethlehem Steel, TJ. S. Steel, Baltimore & Ohio. New York Central and Shell TJnion OiL
Indian Gold Coining Here
There is every reason to believe that substantial amou its of the Indian gold which is being shipped to London every week will find their way to New York. Approximately $1.500,000 arrived this week on the S.S. Majestic and a further 32,500,000 is now cn route on the S. S. Lafayette, due in New York August 3. Advices from London Friday morning told of another $3,000,000 secured for New York account in the open market.
It Is now possible to trans-ship the Indian arrivals at London to New York because of the fact that French francs are below par as compared with the dollar. It has been the practice to hedge the gold shipments from India by sale of forward gold currencies. French francs, Swiss francs and Dutch guilders were used for this purpose because of their strength in the past few months.
The metal was then shipped from London to these three countries and sold there to obtain the gold exchange with which to buy the sterling or rupees to pay for the shipment. Since the present shipments left India, the dollar-franc relationship has changed completely and it is thought that the gold has been brought to New York, sold for dollars with which to buy the francs to make delivery on the forward franc contract previously entered upon.
Dollar Substituted
The French franc will probably be eliminated from the transaction in future shipments and metal which ordinarily would have been covered by sale of forward francs will be covered by direct sales of forward dollars against sterling.
In addition to the Indian gold are the weekly arrivals In London of newly mined metal from the South African mines. The same exchange operation takes place there as with the Indian shipments. New York has been unable to bid for the South African metal with any degree of success since England went off the gold standard because of the persistent premiums of the gold Continentals
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.