The Markets: Stocks Move Down--Can, Steel and Allied Chemical at New Lows-- Rails Weak
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 25, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
The Markets

Stocks Move Down—Can, Steel and Allied Chemical at New Lows,	Dails Weak	;
London market steady to higher; German and Austrian bonds sharply higher* Paris Bourse flrm in all departments. Berlin Boerse flrm. -
Several unfavorable developments, including lower prices for wheat and cotton, and a reactionary trend in the bond market, were prime factors unsettling prices on the New York Stock Exchange where a few leading issues broke into new low ground. Trading volume, however, ran slightly ahead of that on Thursday.	.
The trend of events at the nation's capital also offered no encouragement to headway, particularly with respect to the Senate passage of the Wagner relief bill which would appropriate $2,300,000,000 to provide employment.
Financialwise, however, the American dollar fared better in foreign exchange markets although activity was extremely dull. The week’s bank statements, on the other hand, wefe not particularly favorable, a substantial decline in loans and investments being reported by leading member banks in New York City. An increase of $8,000,000 in gold holdings was the bright spot, Indicating a cessation of the outward movement. The New York Reserve Bank gave reAssurance to confidence in the fundamental financial structure by cutting Its rediscount rate to	from 3% on Thursday after
the market close.
The leading can stocks, American and Continental, were weak spots in the general market, both establishing new low' levels, and exerting an adverse influence upon the remainder of the stock list A downward revision In Continental’s dividend is probable at the next meeting. ,
U. S. Steel, both common and preferred Issues, also penetrated their previous lows, as did Allied Chemical common and American Telephone. In the rail group Atchison broke through, and distinct weakness was apparent in Union Pacific which lost more than 2% points.
Atchison Lower on Dividend Outlook
Among carrier shares, Atchison common has been notably weak, dipping to a new low on fairly large turnover. The pressure on this issue is attributed to uncertainties with respect to dividends, an official statement being iwued at the last meeting, when the payment had been reduced to $1, that the continuance of disbursements would depend upon an Improvement in earnings.
An Improvement has&not materialized, and the road, as a matter or fact, reported a net loss of $757,450 after taxes and'charges for the first four months of this year. That compared with net income of $2,193,574 In the corresponding period of 1931.
During June, Atchison’s loadings have shown some improvement as compared with immediately preceding periods. In the week ended the 18th, loadings were about 2,000 cars larger than in the preceding seven days, and only 11.5% below the similar week in 1931. The pickup was ascribed to heavier shipments of numerous commodities. especially gasoline and lubricating oils, mainly in anticipation of new taxes which went into effect on June 21. The traffic movement since then has fallen off, although the movement of the new winter wheat crop should begin soon. Due to the smaller crop, however, the traffic
movement this year will -not be as large as in 1931.	.
Veterans' Relief Becoming a “Dole”?
The general tendency of post-war legislation has been to change the basis of veterans’ relief by diverting increasing amounts to men who suffered no disability due to war service, the New York Trust Co. states. Veterans* relief, in fact, as a result? of this tendency, is in danger of becoming, in some respects, a thinly disguised “dole” system. In a single year the United States now spends nearly twice as much for veterans* relief as the British government spent in eleven years for its “dole”, or unemployment Insurance. Appropriations made thia year for veterans’ relief aggregate $928,387,795, or approximately one-fourth of the total federal appropriations for all purposes.
’’Between 19/8 and June 30, 1931, more than $6,000,000,000 was spent by the federal government in various forms of relief to veterans of the World War and their dependents and beneficiaries,” states the New York Trust Co. “State governments have spent for similar purposes more than $580,000,000. By 1945 the federal government will have spent $21,500,000,000 under existing relief commitments, according to the Administrator of Veterans* Affairs, who points out that the sum is equal to *the cost of this country’s actual participation in the war.’ The commitments, however, will not be discharged by 1945 and before they are discharged the expenses to the country, according to reliable estimates, will exceed the staggering sum of $100,000,000,000.
“Year by year, since the war ended the demands for relief have progressively widened. The immediate climax has been reached with the agitation for cash payment of ’adjusted service compensation* amounting to over $2,600.000.000. This sum is not due for payment until 1945.”
Gold Stockfl Increased $8,000,000 In Week
Except for the $8,000,000 increase In gold holdings, this week's bank statements are, on the whole, unfavorable. There was a $35.000,000 decline In member bank reserve balances throughout the country, made up of a drop of $55,000,000 outside New York City and a $20,000,000 Increase in New York. This indicates that there was a substantial decline in total bank deposits outside New York. The sharpest drop took plAce in Chicago, which was also mainly responsible for the $38,000,000 reported increase in currency circulation.
In New York City there was a $183,000,000 decline in loans and investments of reporting member banks. For three weeks there have been unusually large fluctuations in the earning assets of New York banks, due for the most part to special transactions such as the pay-off of local government obligations and U. S. Treasury June 15 financing. However, the $140,000.000 decline in “all other** loans, which in part represent business credit, is not particularly reassuring.
On the other hand, the reduction in the New York rediscount rate from 3% to 2’?%. plus the reversal of the gold export movement, are two extremely encouraging developments. Official recognition of the removal of the danger of further heavy gold losses is reassuring evidence that one source of possible credit difficulties can now be forgotten.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.