Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 5, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard IE.-Edmondson
In the first full session of the new year, stocks were nervous and unsettled. Considerable disappointment was occasioned by the way the year-end rally in the principal shares had petered out in Saturday's abbreviated session, and the lack of follow-through on the upside thus displayed induced substantial speculation at the start of the new week.
Selling pressure was increased by Saturday's break to new low levels for the major decline in pivotal industrials like General Motors, American Can and Westinghouse Electric. These declines left the Dow-Jones average for the principal industrials again poised only fractionally above the 1931 resistance level of 73.79, established December 17.
With the industrial compilation at a crucial point, active offerings were based on the thought that penetration of the December low would be followed by general extension of the primary downward movement. Selling of this kind converged largely on leaders like "U. S. Steel, American Telephone. Allied Chemical, du Font, General Motors and Westinghouse.
Support in all these stocks was broken down during the morning, and new lows for the 192931 major decline were set up. However, the action of pivotal shares after last year’s resistance points had been wiped out was relatively encouraging.
Leaders Turn Dull Around Lows
No particular outpouring of stocks came into the market following this development, and the leading stocks turned dull in a narrow price range around the lows. While price movements continued highly irregular during the remainder of the session, the disturbance was chiefly confined to sharp breaks in specialties with a thin market J. I. Case showed an absence of nearby support, and Auburn also had a precipitate drop.
After their recent extensive recoveries, bonds also developed reactionary tendencies However, support for fixed revenue obligations was much better than for stocks, and the declines : in the bond market were relatively small, tak-i ing into consideration the extent of the rally 1 from the lows of December 17. X^nsettlement in I the security markets found reflection m gram I trading, and general losses of more than a cent I a bushel were experienced by active wheat and : corn contracts.
! Earnings Statements for 1931 Awaited
[ Weakness in various leading stocks at the , start of the week was accentuated by a tendency | on part of some interests to withhold buying commitments until an opportunity has been af-1 forded to studv earnings statements for 1931 Adverse conditions in the major branches of trade last year indicate that most reports will make unpleasant reading to shareholders. Until the influence of this factor is out of the way. 'many people were inclined to pursue a cautious 'market policy.
While the outlook is for generally poor showings with regard to 1931 earnings, it is expected that balance sheets, in many instances, will show up m a constructive light in comparison with existing market levels. Not a few representative shares are currently selling at less than their nctVvorking capitals
Strong asset positions currently enjoyed by numerous outstanding companies afford reflection of the foresight of their management m good times. One of the most important factors in ‘ this respect was the policy frequently followed of reducing funded debt through stock financing when the stock market boom was under way.
Westinghouse Electric was able <o retire its 530.000,000 bond obligations by selling 12:-j •'r additional stock at 105 in February. 1929. In a three-year plan of bond redemption, U. S. Steel reduced its funded debt by 5375,000 000. winding up the program w*th the sale of 12r< additional common stock in June, 1929, at $140 a share.
Anaconda retired $134,000,000 bonds following the sale in June, 1929, of 22r r additional
stock at $55 a share. Bethlehem Steel cut down its funded debt during 1929 by $75,000,000, having sold in that year 44% additional common stock at an average of $99 a share.
Januarj* Dividend Meetings
With xuany important dividend meetings scheduled for January, uncertainty over the dividend policies of various leading companies was a factor in the renewed irregularity in the main body of stocks. Atchison directors are scheduled to meet today at 11:30 a. m., and the fact that earnings last year fell below the regular $10 dividend disbursements has given rise to questions as to continuance of the existing rate.
Westinghouse Electric directors will meet for dividend action on Wednesday of this week. In the October quarter last year, Westinghouse paid a dividend of 62’^ cents a share, against $1 a share in the preceding quarter. Prior to that, Westinghouse had been paying regular quarterly dividend of $1 25 a share. In view of Westinghouse’s unfavorable earnings in 1931, considerable difference of opinion prevails regarding the outcome of Wednesday’s meeting.
Both XT. S. Steel and Bethlehem Steel directors will take dividend action during the last week of this month, and Wall Street is awaiting with great interest what payments will be authorized by these companies. Steel’s policy, especially, will be regarded as an indication of the feeling in important financial and industrial circles regarding the business outlook.
Other important dividend meetings scheduled for this month include American Tobacco, American Water Works. Bendix, Borden. Cerro de Pasco. Chile Copper, Columbia Gas. Delaware & Hudson, Freeport Texas, Liggett & Myers, National Biscuit. Norfolk & Western, Pennsylvania, Studebaker and Woolworth.
Paramount-Publix
Paramount was reported under accumulation by interests who believe that the company has solved the most pressing of its financial problems by deferring certain of its large payments on stock repurchase agreements This would remove the necessity of increasing bank loans. New Chicago interests, who have entered the company, arc hard at work on putting finances in good order again.
Secs Rail Bonds in Favored Position
“We believe that the best speculative opportunities over the next few months arc to be found in second-grade railroad bonds,” says Goodbody & Co. ’’The full significance of the developments which have materialized, or are impending, to help the railroad situation has not been appreciated. XTnless traffic over the next year is to get worse, the railroad security outlook is no longer down, but distinctly up.
"The emergency freight rate increase, averaging 3 to 4%. has become effective, and the pooling arrangement under the guidance of the railroad credit corporation will provide funds for many weak roads to meet fixed charge deficiencies. Legislation creating the Reconstruction Finance Corp, proposed by Fresi-dent Hoover in his message to Congress will probably be passed within a month. This corporation probably will be empowered to make loans to railroads fo'r meeting maturities Agreements on a 10r( wage reduction for most of the railroads of the country arc likely within a month-
•‘Here are three definite constructive developments which will give practical insurance that the fixed charges of most of the important railroads of the country •will be met in 1932. Moreover. it is to be expected that most of the important railroad maturities next >ear will also be met through the assistance of the Reconstruction Finance Corp , particularly in those m-stances whore the companies are earning or nearly earning their fixed charges What other group of securities affords sueb an outlook for 1932 a higher price le\el. lower material and wage costs, definite gov< mmental assistance, and perhaps a somewhat larger volume of business.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.