Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 17, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
di-
Further unsettlcmcnt was occasioned in the main body of stocks yesterday by renewed pressure on issues affected by unfavorable developments. Fresh repercussions of the troubles which influenced Ivar Kreuger’s suicide were reflected in the decision of the International Match rectors to discontinue dividend payments both the common and preferred stocks.
International Match preferred, which is listed on the big board, broke to the lowest levels of its history. Kreuger & Toll also reached a new record low, penetrating the resistance established at 17s last Monday’s opening on the initial transaction following announcement of Kreuger’s death. Further selling in Kreuger & Toll was precipitated by Stockholm advices that the stock would be suspended from trading on the stock exchange there when business was resumed next Monday.
Another weak spot was uncovered in R. H. Macy, which dropped sharply following reduction in the quarterly dividend to 50 cents a share. Previously, Macy had been on a dividend basis of S3 yearly. Otis Elevator also cut disbursements to shareholders, going on a $2 annual rate, against $2 50 previously. However, Otis sold off only fractionally on this news.
General Motors at h’ew Low
With various individual issues declining sharply into new low territory, and reports from commercial and industrial centers either negative. or definitely adverse, selling spread on a more active scale to the principal stocks during the afternoon. General Motors attracted attention by dropping below 192-t. its previous support point for the major decline, dipping to a record low for the present common shares.
Offerings of General Motors were accompanied by pessimistic advices regarding the company’s sales following the relatively poor showing made during February. Lack of aggressive support for General Motors encouraged an increase in speculative activities on the downside in other pivotal issues during the last hour. New lows on the current reaction were set up in American Can. Steel. American Telephone. New York Central. Union Pacific, Atchison. and other leaders, and the whole list was under pressure in the final dealings.
Steel Operations Show Decline
Disappointment over the failure of Ford Motor Co. thus far to live up to recent promises of large steel orders caused actual, as well as sentimental setbacks in the steel industry during the past week. Operations dropped 2 points to 25of capacity, according to Iron Age. as other auto makers held up schedules awaiting some indication of Ford’s plans The latter placed orders for steel for 20 000 to 30 000 cars during the past week, but this represents onl\ a small part of his contemplated production.
Mild expansion in requirements of miscellaneous consumers has not been sufficient to offset the lack of important buying by major consuming industries. The railroads are placing small orders for rails, but some of the larger purchases are being delayed by the failure of traffic to show signs of a moderate improvement.
Unable to see immediate signs of a sizable pick-up m demand, steel producers are more determined than ever to accept no business at price concessions •and are making notable progress m establishing recent advances as the official maiket. Some mills have stated that quotations made on specific projects which are not acted upon by March 21 will be withdrawn.
Missouri Pacific
Conflicting versions of th*' attitude of the Reconstruction Finance Corp, m making fur
ther loans to carriers, particularly to take care of maturing bank losses, are held responsible in some quarters for the recent sharp decline in railroad securities. Speculative earner bonds have suffered as well as stocks.
In. some individual cases, the attitude of
on ; bankers ip regard to extending credit to rail-i roads has not been fully presented to the public.
It seems hardly likely that, at the present time, receiverships for any important carrier would be permitted, in view of the efforts being made in all quarters to strengthen public confidence. In regard to the Missouri Pacific, it is authoritatively stated that its position will not be jeopardized on April 1. The road has a bank loan of $11,700,000, which falls due on that date.
Freight Traffic Figures Unfavorable
Car loadings for the country as a whole during the week ended March 5 were disappointing. While they showed an increase of 23.941 over the preceding week, which included Washington’s birthday, they were 163.766 cars below the corresponding week of last year. The percentage decline from a year ago was the largest reported so far this year amounting to 22 6*>-Loadings of individual roads for the week ended March 12 point to a continuation of the down trend. Traffic handled by the Atchison showed a materially larger decline than for the week ended March 5 New York Central figures also were unfavorable. For the seven days ended March 3 2. the Central loaded 40.323 cars of revenue freight against 53.S45 cars in like 1931 week, a drop of 25 1\. In the preceding week. Central loadings wore 41,265, against 52,99S m 1931. a decline of 221^.
Stocks Show Better Resistance
Although discouraged by the dreary character of the dealings in the main body of stocks, various observers commented that the stock market had a brighter aspect than the general business picture. Reliable measures of trade conditions indicated that, after the slight seasonal bulge last month, activities in some branches had slipped to new low levels for the depression.
:	la view of this situation, the wavering atti-
tude of the market, after its upturn of late February and early March, is readily understandable. As a matter of fact, experienced ' students felt that the principal stocks had given a notably good account of themselves lately, taking into consideration the opposition, they , have encountered in the form of depressing trade statistics.
! According to this viewpoint, the news from business lires recently has been no less adverse ’ than it was a year ago. at which time pivotal shares were engaged in an active decline that carried industrials used m the Dow-Jones averages from 394 33 on February 24. 1931. to 123.<0 on June 2 While railroad stocks lately have lost nearly al! their rcco\ery. on the average from the 1932 lows, and industrials have relinquished about half their rallies, the market ha<=* continued wthm the trading range occupied over the previous three months.
In other words, the share list has shown no disposition to develop a definite downward trend, as it did a year ago when faced by similar dusmess circumstances. To point out thi«» situation is only another way of saying that drab trade conditions have been largely discounted. after 30 months of declining prices, and shrinking brokers’ loans, and that a change for the better m the profits curve would find stocks eager to respond
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.