Abreast of the Market
Edmondson, Richard E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 12, 1932; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Liquidation was resumed on a broad front in the share list at the start ot the new week, and prices dropped to new low levels for the depression in various departments. Active covering, which was chiefly responsible for the upturn in Saturday's session, was checked by news over Sunday that the Senate's investigation of the stock market at this time would be confined solely to the testimony of President Whitney, of the New York Stock Exchange.
In the absence of urgent demand from the shorts, further necessitous selling, as well as offerings from discouraged investors, foul'd a dearth of bids, and prices gave ground virtually throughout the market. Steel common headed the downward movement in the pivotal industrials following publication of the corporation's unfilled tonnage statement for March. Latter showed forward business "on the corporation's books at the lowest point on record.
With Steel common at its lowest levels since the war and Steel preferred in new low ground since 1907, extensions of the downward movement took place in General Motors, du Pont, American Can, Johns-Mansville, Allied Chemical, National Biscuit, and other outstanding issues of the industrial category. Consolidated Gas headed the decline in the utility class, reaching record low territory for the existing shares.
Rally Fails to Hold
Rails also were under heavy pressure during the morning, and new lows on the movement were reache'd by New York Central, Atchison, Union Pacific, and Chesapeake & Ohio. However, increasing resistance developed during the middle of the day, and a brisk rally developed in the whole market during the afternoon.
President Whitney's testimony before the Senate banking and currency committee made a favorable Impression on financial sentiment, eliminating the nervousness created by indiscriminate talk of "bear raiding." Improvement in the share list also was stimulated by further substantial gains In wheat prices.
Wheat scored additional advances running up to nearly four cents a bushel on reports of continued crop damage following the government's bullish estimate on the winter wheat crop as of April 1. Recoveries in the principal stocks also derived impetus from short covering and fresh buying, based on reports that the administration planned to cooperate with banking Interests In a concerted effort to check security liquidation.
During the last hour, stocks which had borne the brunt of the earlier selling staged extensive rebounds from the day's lows. Rallying tendencies quickly broadened, and the market enjoyed a brief respite from pressure. However, this turn for the better was wiped out by another wave of selling in the final dealings. Leading stocks relapsed to around the lowest levels of the movement, and a heavy tone again characterized the list at the close.
First Quarter Statements Awaited
With the first quarter earnings statements of American Telephone, and other leading corporations, due within the next fortnight, Wall Street will shortly have a line on the factor that has been an active influence in depressing stock prices since early March. At that time, it became obvious that no seasonal upturn in commercial and Industrial activities was In sight. Consequently, it was plain that earnings statements for the first three months of the year would be extremely unfavorable, and this situation Induced a resumption of the liquidating movement in the main body of stocks.
However, further declines in share values over the last month have been so drastic that some accumulation Is now coming into the mar
ket on the theory that first quarter statements will prove to have been largely discounted. Liquidation has broadened recently from the leading stocks into representative issues throughout the list, a development which in the past has customarily preceded a change of trend, at least temporarily.
After the virtually uninterrupted decnines of the last ten days, it is felt that a recovery of more than a few hours* duration is indicated. While recognizing that considerable risk is involved in playing for a rally against the main trend, many traders have been making long commitments on a scale down, feeling that if profits do not eventuate immediately they will be seen on the next major upturn.
Activity In OH Shares
Considerable shifting of holdings in various oil stocks was indicated by transactions in large blocks at unchanged prices. Generally speaking, the oils held better than other sections of the industrial department. Standard of New Jersey receiving support above the previous low for tbe year of 25%.
Interest in the petroleum industry at present centers chiefly on the price situation. With Standard Oil of Indiana and Gulf meeting the advance of 15 cents a barrel in crude oil prices in fields in the southwest, Standard Oil of New Jersey also came into line yesterday. However, the attitude of the major purchasers of crude is shown In the statement of Indiana Standard, declaring that for the new crude prices to hold there must be a general increase in prices for finished products.
In California there are expectations of an advance of 20 to 25 cents a barrel in brude oil prices, probably as an inducement to producers to keep production within bounds. The general cut of 2 cents a gallon in regular and ethyl gasoline in the Pacific coast territory, Saturday, with an advance in the third grades, is In the nature of an adjustment to competitive conditions, considerable undercutting having developed in the first quarter as in the same period last year.
Tax Factor Affects Securities
"Repercussions from the renewed weakness in the bond market of course are likely unless reversal of trend soon is seen," says J. H. Oliphant & Co. "There have been 24 days of virtually unbroken decline and bond prices now have lost 96% of all recovery from the demoralized level of December to the early part of March. Beginning last month $10,610,000,000 par value of railroad bonds w^re listed. Market value was $7,026,000,000 then. Probably it now stands under $6,000,000,000, and how this drop seriously concerns insurance companies, savings banks, etc., is self evident. ‘
"Some liquidation has evidently been due to fears that politics may dictate tax measures closely approaching 'redistribution of wealth New highs for tax exempt bond issues last week (yield from Liberty '8%s going below 2.70%) in the face of new lows for other securities told the story. One proposal considered in the House Involved 72% maximum income tax and with rates fixed in the states as high as 15% this would mean taking nearly seven-eighths of Income. Nothing so radical is likely to be finally done but this attitude causes apprehension. Tax questions will continue prominent in current news. Program this week calls for hearings in regard to income tax rates generally, on the sales tax, the postal rates, and on the stock transfer^tax and miscellaneous proposals. Should it appear that sentiment in the Senate is coming around to spreading the burden of taxes more equitably there would be much relief In security markets."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.