Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 15, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
'Ey Richard, E. Edmondson
Stocks succumbed to fresh discouragement over domestic business prospects yesterday after putting up temporary resistance to the disturbing influence of Ivar Kreuger’s suicide. News over Sunday of the tremendous vote accorded von Hindenburg in the German elections furnished an offsetting factor to the heavy selling in the Kreuger & Toll issues.
While dispatches from abroad told of general unsettlement in tbe European markets, dealings on the New York Stock Exchange were fairly orderly at the opening. Great difficulty was experienced in establishing an initial price for Kreuger & Toll, which was offered in large volume from various parts of the world.
Kreuger’s opening level was eventually fixed at 1%, compared with Saturday’s final price of 5, and lumped transactions totaling 150,000 shares were consummated at that figure. Kreu-ger’s opening did not come until around 11 o’clock. Meanwhile, the principal stocks maintained a fairly steady tone in quiet trading slightly below the previous closing levels.
Offerings of Kreuger & Toll continued to pour into the market in a steady stream, with the turnover in the stock accounting for more than half the entire volume on the Stock Exchange. However, Kreuger developed better resistance, reflecting heavy buying from the public attracted by the low levels at which the stock was obtainable.
Break in Rail*. Unsettles List
With Kreuger making a stand slightly abo-c its opening level, the market generally moved in a narrow price range through the middle of the day. However, the good feeling created by the resistance to disturbance abroad was dampened during the afternoon by renewed pessimism regarding the trade outlook at home.
This situation appeared largely attributable to the extremely poor showing made by the latest car loading figures of individual railroads For the week ended March 12, Atchison's traffic showed a decrease of 23 7rc from the corresponding period a year ago.
Fresh evidence that general business continued to move at depressed levels found translation into heavy selling of the principal rails Southern Pacific broke to a new low for the major decline, while extensive recessions occured in Atchison. Union Pacific, New York Central, and other leaders of the carrier department Selling spread to American Telephone, Steel, and other pivotal shares, and the whole market was under pressure during the late afternoon.
Eastman Kodak Deelnie* Sharply
Reactionary tendencies which characterized trading during the last hour were intensified by i> sudden outburst of selling m wheat and coin just before the close of dealings on the Chicago Soard of Trade. This development was attributed cheifly to the failure of anti-prohibi-tiomsts in the House to win then fight *.o uake the Beck-Linthicum prohibition repeal resolution out of the judiciary committee This resolution called for submission to the states of ar. amendment to the Constitution which would. in effect, return control of the liquor traffic to the states.
Eastman Kodak was a weak spot in the specialty class, declining sharply on news from Rochester of the death of George Eastman chairman of the board. Eastman Kodak broke from a morning high of 81 to a low of 73 b. closing at 74 9.4, off 6^ points on the day Ac-
cording to interests close to the management, however, Mr. Eastman’s death will result in no change in the company’s affairs.
Mr. Eastman was noted for his philanthropic works, and most of his share holdings in the kodak company has been placed in trust for the benefit of educational and charitable institutions. As a result, it was felt that the break in Eastman had been due to the nervous condition of the general market rather than to the expectation of any substantial liquidation of the stock.
Market Awaits Business Trend
Technical conditions in the main body of stocks continue well-fortified, as indicated by the fact that the short interest was reduced only 500,000 shares last month notwithstanding the proposed revision in the Stock Exchange rules regarding share lending, and the widespread agitation concerning short selling. Moreover, the amount of stock being carried on margin in Wall Street is obviously negligible, and forced liquidation from outside sources has been checked by the improved banking situation following passage of the Glass-Steagall bill.
However, it takes more than a strong internal position to make a rising market, and what stocks are apparently waiting for now is some assurance that business will turn upward in the wake of reduced hoarding and slowly reviving general confidence. Gradual easement m money conditions is affording the groundwork for persistent appreciation m bond prices.
This is an encouraging development at this stage of the economic cycle. Should it be sustained. and find its traditional reflection in ultimate stimulation of the major industries, the later months of the year undoubtedly would bring the incipient phase of a major upw*ard movement m share values.
Trade Upturn Foreseen in Spring
'■VVc believe that confidence is awakening both here and abroad as a result of the recent enactment of the Glass-Steagall bill, repay menu of some 71of the credit extended to England, and the rise in sterling exchange.” says Goodbody & Co. “An easier and more liquid credit situation here is quite likely at this time to start business on the upgrade, although much evidence of improvement may not appear before late Spring.
“Those who wait for corporate earnings to show improvement over the similar period of a. year ago before venturing marketwise may forfeit some rise. Past depression periods are not comparable to this one. but some of the experiences of 1920-1921 may have some significance. Railroad stock prices generally made their lows in that depression during June, 1921. and yet average weekly car loadings for 1920 were not equaled by any corresponding month thereafter until November. 1922. But the important thing then, as it will be now, is th*, change m the business trend
"Price swings of railroad common stocks as between 1921 and 1920 were unusually narrow With most roads now increasing their debt and with resumption of common dividends in many instances several years off, price swings of most railroad equities arc apt to be quite small for some months. But although railroad gross revenues may continue bclcTw 1931 for many months as they did in 1921 and 1922 compared with 1920, we would expect the trend marketwise to be upward if business improves ”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.