Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 6, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
Stocks were confronted yesterday by increase of $42,000,000 in money in circulation shown by the Federal Reserve figures for the week ended February 3. Although it was expected that the operations of the Reconstruction Finance Corp, would have a reassuring effect on public sentiment in coming weeks, this gain demonstrated that withdrawals of funds for hoarding purposes were continuing. It afforded fresh explanation for President Hoover's plans for a concerted campaign among civic bodies to check the sterilization of monev.
"Whiie an increase of $17,000,000 occurred last week in Federal Reserve credit outstanding, it reflected discounting by member banks to meet month-end requirements. Bill holdings decreased $6,000,000, and government securities $3,000,000, showing that the central banking authorities were not resorting to open market operations to ease credit conditions.
Probably steps in this direction were withheld because of continued foreign requisitions on the nation's gold supply. Latter drain resulted in a reduction of $20,000,000 in the monetary gold stock during the past week.
In addition to the uninspiring character of the Federal Reserve figures, considerable discouragement was in evidence over the ffuiure of trade statistics to reveal any indications of a seasonal upturn in business. This feeling found reflection particularly in active selling of the rails, which were subjected to pressure on the unfavorable comparisons with a year ago made by car loadings since the start of 1932.
General Electric at New Low
New York .Central, Atchison, Union Pacific. New Haven, Southern Pacific, and other leading rails were freely supplied, and extensive declines took place in stocks of this class With the rails at. the lowest levels reached since January 7. the entire market felt the loss of the sustaining factor supplied over the last fortnight by the stubborn resistance to declining tendencies put forth by the carrier group.
Selling activities broadened, and general declines took place in representative stocks throughout the list. New lows on the current icaction were reached by Steel. American Can. Allied Chemical, American Telephone, and other pivotal shares. General Electric dipped to a record low for the present shares on the outlook for reduced expenditures by public utility companies during the current year.
Bull Forces Postpone Commitments
In planning a bull campaign in stocks in conjunction with the efforts of the Reconstruction Finance Corp to restore public confidence, prominent financial interests have felt that an opportunity would be afforded to conduct their accumulation around the lows of early January This thought has been based on the doubt regarding immediate business prospects reflected by statements given out by leading corporations such as U S. steel, Bethlehem. General Motors, and rcnnw’hama Railroad in connection with their recent clix idend actions.
Another factor that has created uncertainty regarding nearby trade outlook is the delax of the Ford Motor Co. in getting into production on its new lines. Even if Ford speeds up its output in March, total outturn of curs by the motor industry in the first quarter will fall substantial! v below the initial throe months of 1931. since Ford manufactured 210.000 units in the latter period.
Meanwhile, the postponcnv'nt of the new Ford lines is holding up sales in the low-priced field, since prospective purchasers are waiting to see what Ford will have to offer. With the motor industry currently marking time, considerable selling has been coming into storks of this group Auburn has been a special target of these offerings. Several operators prominent on the downside over the last two years have lately put out short lines in Auburn.
Action of Rails Unfavorable
From a technical standpoint, the recent action of the market has rather plainly reflected the feeling in important quarters that more advantageous opportunities for accumulation would later be afforded. This absence of influential buying has principally been shown in the light volume of dealings, and narrow price swings In the ten sessions from January 23 to February’ 4, inclusive, industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages never closed below 76. nor above 60 Moreover, in that period, there were four sessions m which the turnover was under 1,000.000 shares
As the market is not in the habit, of long acquiescing m such a ’ stands!*11 agreement experienced observers have felt that the list was preparing t<> engage in a mote definite movement with tne trend dependent upon which side the pnnctpal stocks emerged hem the rut In view of this situation considerable significant e was attached to the ration ot the rails when they broke below 36 during the morn.ng
This dip in the carrier compilation represented the erasure of more than 30'. of the ground gained on the upturn fmm 31 3b on January’ 3 to 41 30 on January 13 As industrials had already lost about 05'. ot their advance in the same period, the performance of the rails gave confirmation to reinstatement
of the downward trend, leaving the next phase of the market to be determined by the character of the support in evidfence around the resistance figures of early January.
If these levels should be penerated by both the industrial and railroad averages, it would indicate that the list had entered another leg of the major decline. On the other hand, if either department should prove able to withstand pressure above the lows of January 5. it would strongly suggest that the deflationary movement had been completed.	,
Taking into consideration the indications that the market was headed for a test of its ability to hold above the early January lows, most analysts felt that a cautious speculative policy called for postponement of buying commitments until a better line could be obtained on the probable outcome of such a test. However. extensive long-pull accumulation is expected for the account of powerful Wall Street groups on recessions from existing price levels, and shrewd private investors can be counted upon to follow any’ signs that such buying is making its appearance.
Money in Circulation Increase*
Although Federal Reserve bank credit outstanding stood $12,000,000 higher on Wednesday than the week before, and averaged $17.000.000 above the preceding period, the entire increase was represented by a rise in discounting rather than through open market operations of the system. Discounts increased, furthermore, only in the New York and San Francisco districts, and remained practically unchanged m other centers. The $17,000,000 net gain in discounts more than offset a drop of $6,000,000 in bill holdings and of S3 000.000 in government securities. Other reserve bank credit advanced $3,000,000
All in all. however, the drop in credit since the end of last year has amounted to only’ $392,000,000, compared with the decline in the similar period a year ago of $424,000,000 on a volume of credit only’ half of, today's total.
Money* m circulation advanced $42,000,000 President Hoover may* well express disfavor over the hoarding of notes since figures show that circulation has receded only $2.000,000 from the year-end total, whereas in 1931 the figure had fallen $313,000,000. and in 1930. S33S,-000.000 in the corresponding periods. Circulation now stands $1 035.000,000 aoove one y*oar ago and $1,104,000,000 above two years ago. However. some of this week’s rise can be attributed to month-end factors
- Reserve of all member banks with the Federal declined $8 000 000 giving evidence of further shrinkage of deposits Xet demand deposits ot New York member banks dropped $241 000 000. and their total loans and investments $25.000 000, despite a rise of $46.000 000 in holdings of government securities and of $10,000 r00 in non-sccunty loans.
Sees Poor Wheat Market Outlook
Everything in the wheat situation is bearish. except possibilities, and these possibilities have been so frequently dissipated as to be largely negligible from this time forward. James E Bennett, veteran grain operator and head ot the firm ol James E Bennett A: Co believes. Snou and generally favorable weather for winter wheat would seem to set at rest apprehension m regard to the 1932 crop in wheat, at least for the present Mr. Bennett find<= it hard to account for the recent persistent selling of wheat on the bulges unless the federal agencies are dnmg the logical and obvious, that is. relieving themselves of a bad trade
“Other countries of the world with surplus stocks have supplied consumers largely to our e> elusion “ he says. “Our political manipulators have made an excellent market for distressed Canadian xvneat Low freight rates have for a ’•'ng time offered Argentina an unusual opportunity* to compete While, of course, money and muscle can bring about occasional advances in wh<*at nothing except a crop catastrophe not now in sight can probably prevent lower prices.
“According to BroomhaJl. the United States will export 80,000.000 bushels less wheat than originally* estimated, the reduction of our shipments being made up by increased exports principally from Argentina and Canada Regardless of many estimates to the contraTy. Russia will probably continue to supply a considerable quota in competition with our artificially* high priced wheats With the accumulation tn this country* and with the demoralization incident to cxtrav..gant government expenditures and abnormally high prices these will undoubtedly b.-forced selling r»f wheat during the lomlng summer and it seems tn me that nothing excent some very abnormal development can prevent July and September wheat keeping out of the 40 s
“Unquestionably these is a great deal of wheat in the hands of mills who have not been able to sell their flour and farmers who have been falsely misled as to probable values that will soon bo coming on the market What conditions may bung about artificial strength from time to time is hard tn tell The bear clement is afraid to sell wheat and the market meets little pressure except on hard spots The short interest is probably abnormally’ small and there is not much cushion under the market ’’
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.