Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 7, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8	---
Abreast of the Market
jBy Richard E. Edmondson
Broad advancing1 tendencies developed in the principal security markets of the world yesterday, reflecting growing optimism over the prospect of early solution of the problems involved in an adjustment of reparations payments. Reports were heard in international banking quarters that France was prepared to assume a conciliatory attitude in the matter, and these rumors found reflection in a vigorous advance on the London Stock Exchange.
In Wall street, snorts were tnrown into a nervous state by abrupt advances in the principal stocks in the early dealings. Indications that the market had worked into a drastically oversold position were conveyed by the difficulty experienced in opening various leading shares.
Offerings of Steel common, which had displayed stubborn resistance during recent sinking spells in the general list, were notably scarce, and the initial transaction was fixed at 38^1, up 2*4 points from the previous close, on a block of 5,000 shares. A compressed technical situation also existed in Auburn. With 1,600 shares wanted, and no nearby offerings available. Auburn ran up to 131, a gain of 11U points from Tuesday’s final.
Similar conditions also prevailed in American Can. which spurted 31- points to 59. and in American Telephone, which gained 2-% to 112 V*- Thin markets in pivotal shares reflected absorption that had proceeded in the last several sessions on the theory that pessimism regarding the economic outlook had been overdone. With the Reconstruction Finance Corp apparently destined for speedy sanction by Congress, and the railway credit situation substantially strengthened, persistent accumulation had gone ahead In standard stocks, reducing the floating supply to an extent that accounted for the sudden uprushes when short covering was undertaken in sizable volume.
German Bonds in Demand
Logically enough, the reports of a prospective agreement on the reparations question elicited a spirited response from German bonds listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Latter scored gains running up to five points before any volume selling was encountered. Grain markets at Chicago also were strengthened by the rumors from abroad. Both wheat and corn scored good gains on the prospect for increased demand if the tangled state of xntergovernmen-l tai payments should be smoothed out.
j Taking into consideration the sweeping ! gams of the morning hour, price movements in ' the main body of stocks displayed noteworthy stability as the session progressed. Persistent I demand was in evidence for standard stocks or. alight setbacks, .and pivotal shares maintained a confident tone at close to the day's best levels during the afternoon.
Market Fywchologv Improve*
Probably the most important influence in the markers abrupt turn for the better was the
•	revulsion from the extreme pessimism recently > prevailing in trading circles This improvement ! in speculative psychology was promoted by the I outlook that the Reconstruction Finance Corp
•	would be passed by both the Senate and the House in the coming week, and would be in
1 operation within 30 days
Prospects that $2,000,000,000 credit will shortly be made available for banks and corporations harassed by frozen assets undoubtedly have played an important part in the vastly better action of the genera! bond market. Thcv also furnish nn explanation for the persistent ’ weakness in Treasury obligations since extensive additional government financing will be ro-
•	quxred tn raise the capital necessary for the ! proposed corporation
i It is obvious that a great burden will be lifted from the shoulders of the bank* when this ’ government agency begins to function. Tms out; look provided a kev to the recent demonstration of strength in bank shares in the over-counter market, which, in turn, was translated into more ; confident buying of standard stocks listed on , the big board. Potential buyers of representa-! tive shares, have been awaiting a cue from bond?' ' and bank shares, and the indications of restored stability in these markets supplied a stimulus
•	that proved highly invigorating to Stock Ex. change activities.
'	Action of Rails Studied
I Students of the Low theory of averages have | been favorably impressed by the indications of ! important support in the 'rail shares around i their 1931 resistance levels Last year’s lov. e <t t eloping figure in the Dou-Jones compilation lor ‘earner stocks was 31 12. leached on Dccembci 17. At Tuesday s close, the rail average wa.-> ' fractionally below this point standing at 31 3*3
This extension of the December 17 figure was not sufficient to constitute definite penetration of the previous support levels. With the Atchison dividend reduction out of the way, market analysts were closely watching the action of the rails, feeling that a double bottom would be indicated if pivotal carrier shares continue to receive effective support around this week’s lows.
In the case of industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages, the recent declines carried the compilation well below the December 17 resistance level. On the latter date, the industrial average closed at 73.79, while Tuesday’s final prices found the compilation at 71 24. Definite penetration of the December 17 figure In the railroad average would give confirmation to the action of the industrials and suggest that the market had entered a further phase of the major decline.’ Hence, bullish sentiment would be actively encouraged if the .jails withhold a confirmatory signal.
In August, 1921. completion of the post-war deflationary movement in the main body of stocks was shown when the rails refused to follow a further decline in the industrials. As a result, experienced observers are awaiting with great interest the outcome of nearby tests of the character of the support m the carrier group.
With railroad stocks at their lowest average levels since 1893. the feeling is growing that shares of this class have rather thoroughly dis- I counted the poor earnings conditions resulting from the low rate of activity in general business. Moreover, actual and prospective wage . reductions, increased freight rates, and ex- i tensive operating economics, have materially ■ bolstered the status of the transportation jn- J dustry. and are attracting steady buying to i representative railroad stocks in the belief that ] they offer outstanding bargains for long-term , investment.
Montgomery Ward Active	I
Montgomery Ward was an active feature of , the mail order division, advancing to a new high for the current rally on a large turnover. Strength in Montgomery" Ward was accompanied by reports that the project of a consolidation with Scars-Rocbuck had been revived This storj’ was emphatically denied by President Wood, of Scars, Roebuck & Co. "We know-nothing about it. and there is absolutely nothing in it.” Mr Wood said. “There have been no negotiations of any kind whatever since the 1930 negotiations were terminated last August. 1 and none arc contemplated ”	j
Waldorf St ago Rally
Waldorf System displayed a stronger tone, recapturing about half the ground lost on the break which followed suspension of Gurnett & Co . the house which had been sponsoring the market for the stock Vt aidorf s recovery reflected buying attracted by the yield of more than	on the regular $1 50 dividend aftorded
by the common stock at the low levels to which it was depressed by forced liquidation.
Waldorf more than covered its full year's dividend m the nine months to September 30, last, reporting a balance of S1.S4 a common share for the period, against Sl.TS in the first nine months of 1930. At Tuesday’s low of 11	. Wal-
dorf was selling nt little more than four times its estimated 1931 earnings of $2 50 a share. In 1930, a balance of S2 55 a common share was reported, while the 1929 showing was $2.50 a shine Average common share earnings since 1921 have been above $2 a share.
Steel Prohpocth Brighter
Weekly icviews of the steel industry reported a slight rebound m operations. following the low points reachi’u towards the close of 1931. Operations tor the inciustry at large were estimated at about 22' , of capacity, compared with about 2U', tnv v. eek before
Notwithstanding the slow start of the new year, steel authorities expect operations will continue to gain moderate]v during January, with the possibility that Fcbruaiy will reflect the usual seasonal rise more than thd current month. Automonilc und farm machinery manufacturers are ineieasing their schedules gradually. and men are being called back to railroad shops for repair work.	•
Steel producers ai e attempting to stabilize prices, but there are still some weak spots, particularly in the products used by the automot'vo trade. The motor manulncturcrs naturally are a*tempting to establish, the lowest possible cost base before bringing their new carb out.
Tiir industry. has existed so long on a d* -pre-sod basi^ that the steel trade is com.ting on some U’gent ieplncement business to h»'lp along operation*'
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.