Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 19, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. EdinoTtclson
Price movements in the main body of stocks developed pronounced irregularity at tbe start of the new week. Nervous fluctuations in the leaders indicated that the market had relinquished considerable technical strength on its recent extensive advances from the lows of January 5.
UnsettJement was heightened by prolongation of the railway wage conferences in Chicago. Insistence on part of labor on its demands for a six-hour day, and other concessions, suggested that the negotiations were likely to drag along several days more than Wall Street had expected. This prospect induced the liquidation of long lines built up in the principal rails in anticipation of a prompt agreement.
Bullish sentiment also was dampened by unfavorable developments in the European situation over the week-end. Advices from Central Europe intimated that Austria, Bulgaria, Greece, and Jugoslavia were planning to default on their obligations, in which the United States has an interest of approximately $600,000,000.
Moreover, increasing signs were in evidence that the Lausanne conference would bring no settlement of the reparations question, but was likely merely to postpone the issue. France apparently plans to ask this country for another year’s moratorium on debts m exchange lor extending relief to Germany. This outlook largely accounted for a sharp break on the Pans Bourse where the continuation 9f the reparations tangle was regarded as constituting an obstacle to European business revival.
Covering Flurn' in Steel Common
Trade news over Sunday was generally favorable, particularly rhe adviced from the steel industry, which reported that both demand and production were on the upgrade. In the Youngstown district, Carnegie Steel Co. increased its operations to 50%, against 30% to 40% recently. This expansion reflected larger orders from automobile manufacturers.
This improvement emphasized the compressed technical market situation existing in U. S. Steel common, which commanded a premium of of 1% m the loan crowd after Saturday’s close. Shorts who had their share borrowings called during the morning, m many instances were forced to pay a premium of of 1% for fresh loans.
This stiff assessment caused a flurry of covering in Stee». and the stock shot up more than two points in a few minutes’ trading. J. I Case also staged a bullish demonstration, responding to further gams in wheat and con: prices on top of Saturday’s vigorous* gains m these commodities.
However, the upturn in indvidual issues failed to bring a response from leading stocks generally. Selling gradually grew in volume through the middle of the day. and the afternoon dealings in the general list were characterized by reactionary tendencies.
Sharp Bulge In May Wheat
Advancing tendencies in wheat, under the sponsorship of strong eastern interests, have carried the Chicago M:iy deliveries up 6 cents from Friday's low price. The result has been a marked revival of outside speculative interest in the grain market in the hope that this is a movement similar to the t/j -cent advance in the May delivery to the 73-cent mark on November 9. Inst, from the October 5 low. This move, houncr. eventually collapsed as the three major operator* then involved realized their profits on long lines accumulated mostly around 53 or 56 cents.
Last November, us now, the Chicago market was not at the normal 17-vent freight and transportation discount under Liverpool, and the I’. S. was, therefore, shut off from that export market in a period usually the most advantageous for North American sales. Argentina and Australia were then marketing the last batches of their old crop surpluses with new crops not due until uround January 1. Thus. Liverpool was forced partially to follow the American rise, although not much wheat was actually purchased. The T'nited States is left with the fifth largest crop in its history. w ith the smallest exports in the past 20 yenrs and Indications of another record surplus on July 1, next, to offset a new crop likelv to be under domestic needs.
While May yesterday advanced to 61 -*4 cents, or fractionally over the level of the top privileges for the day. a flood of profit taking nnd selling against the offers nipped- the bulge. Fact that Chicago is selling more than	cents over Liverpool
nnd the Southern Hemisphere’s 260,000,000-bushel surplus is now pouring to the Continental markets tended to restrain buying. In some circles, however, it v\ ns indicated that the eastern syndicate operating at present had set 65 cents as its objective.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
American Sugar Breaks
American Sugar broke badly, dropping to a new record low. Selling of American Sugar followed publication of an interview given out in Havana by Earl U. Babst, chairman of the company, in which he declared that the industry was menaced by the importation into the United States of refined sugar from Germany and England. Pressure on the stock also reflected last week’s reduction in the quarterly common dividend to $1 a share, from $1.25 previously, and the statement by the management that the annual report for 1931 would show a deficit of approximately $1,200,000.
Sears Roebuck in Demand
Activity at rising prices Ln Scars Roebuck gave expression to the belief In responsible quarters that there was no foundation for recent reports that some of the holdings of the late Julius Rosenwald be liquidated at this time. No necessity exists for such action, and the Rosenwald estate holdings of Sears Roebuck are expected to be kept Intact.
Consider Odd-Lot Commission Changes
Carlisle, Mellick & Co., De Coppet & Doremus, and Jacquehn & De Coppet, the three firms which handle the entire odd-lot business on the Stock Exchange, are considering ways of meeting the proposed increases m state and federal taxes on stock transactions. With commissions scaled according to price levels, all Stock Exchange firms have suffered a substantial reduction m income as a result of tbe drastic shrinkage in market values over the las*, two years. 1
At the start of this month, the average price of the shares listed on the big board was $20.24. against tbe record high of $89.13 on September 1. 1929. To buy or sell 100 shares of stock at S20 costs a commission of $12.50, compared with-$20 for a similar transaction in the price range from $75 to $100. In conjunction with the pronounced falling off in the turnover on the Stock Exchange, this situation affords an indication of the smaller receipts currently flowing to member houses.
As a step to aid m balancing its budget, the State of New York is contemplating an increase to $4 a hundied shares m the tax on selling transactions In issues of $100 par value, from the existing level of S2 a hundred shares. In the case of the federal government, an upward i revision to S3, nr perhaps S4, is being consid- j cred, against 32 at present	j
Aside from their restrictive influence cd ' trading, such .ncreases would make no differ- ' cncc to Stock Exchange houses engaged in a general commission business. When a selling order is executed by these firms for a client, i the latter naturally defrays the tax on the, transaction.	j
But a different situation exists with regard : to the firms specializing in odd lots. When a buying oiclcr for less than 100 shares appears on the floor, one of th*' odd-lct organizations must take the selling side to supply the stock rc- ! quircd.	;
Quarter Above Market Contemplated
In event the higher state and federal taxes are placed on stock sales, the overhead of the , odd-lot firms will be added to materially. With ; so many shares selling in the lower price | brackets, odcl-lot specialists feel they are in no j position to absorb the increased taxes	,
C’onsoquentlv if the higher levies are placed m effect, some method will probably be devised to cause tne client from whom the odd-lot buying order originates to shoulder the greater ex- | pense. Tne ;>lan now being considered is to ' make the pr*ce on odd-lot buy-ng orders a quar- ! ter of a point above the market, instead of an , eighth, as is now the case m most active stocks. Since the investor or trader who sell*5 an odd-lot ; must pay the tax, no change is contemplated m the discount he now receives from the prevail mg price tor transactions in full lots.	;
In Stock Exchange circles, the feeling is ' growing that the State administration should consider the poss.oflity ”of killing the goose that lays the goluen egg ’ through increasing taxes on stock sales. Since transactions on the Stock Exchange originate in every part of the • country, some authorities argue that the State I is collecting a national tax in placing a levy on 1 share sales.	i
It is pointed out that people in other states; have not the remotest interest in the financial t difficulties at Albany. Stocks like American Telephone and General Electric are listed on the ; Boston and Philadelphia Stock Exchanges, as well .is al Now York. Observers with Wall Street s bett interest at heart feel that business j may he dtiven away from this center if other i states follow a more liberal tax policy than! New York, with the ultimate result that Albany! would partially defeat the purpose it has in 1 mind.	:
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.