Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 14, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8	A I
Abreast of the Market
Sy Richard E. Edmondson
Preparation^ by the Federal Reserve authorities to take corrective measures designed to prevent further deflation in. security values and commodity prices stimulated buoyant markets in bond and share lists yesterday. Indications that this program was already under way were conveyed by the announcement late Tuesday that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had reduced its buying rate for bankers’ bills to levels under those prevailing in the open market.
This was the first time since last May that the Federal Reserve had openly invited an ex* pansion in outstanding credit. During the pas£ year, the amount of Federal Reserve credit in use contracted to the extent of $2,400,000,000.
Convinced that deflation had been carried to unwarranted extremes, the Federal Reserve officials have decided to adopt an easy monev policy to bring credit liquidation to a halt, and encourage business revival. Pursuant to this plan, it is expected that the Federal Reserve will pump credit into the market through purchases of bills and securities.
• * •
No official intimations as yet have been given as to whether the program will Involve a reduction in the local rediscount rate, currently standing at 3 *,•;%. In the past, however, lower rediscount rates have followed cut in bill rates, and have accompanied extensive open market operations on part of the Federal Reserve.
Evidence that the central banking authorities were standing in the way of further deflationary tendencies elicited a vigorous response from Treasury obligations. Latter threw aside the recent heaviness and staged the most impressive advance seen in government issues lor many months.
German Agreement Indicated
With *U. S. government bonds supplying aggressive leadership, domestic corporation issues extended their recent gains in impressive style German obligations headed the upswing in the foreign group, buoyed by Berlin advices that an agreement had been reached regarding the German short term credits, and that an extension of the present “standstill” arrangement for another year probably would be authorized in the next few days.
Expectations that general trade would be speeded up by easier credit cond.tions were translated into spirited demand for the principal stocks. Steel common rose to a new high or. the current rally, responding to announcement by Dow, Jones Co., that the corporation’s orders in December had exceeded shipments for the first month since early last year Advancing tendencies broadened throughout the list in the wake of an upswing in industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages to well above the closing level of December 19. which had represented the previous resistance point on the upside. This performance on part of pivotal industrials gave confirmation to the recent substantial odvancc of the principal rails into new high ground on the movement. It strengthened technical indications that the general list was engaged in an intermediate recovery that should result in the recapture of approximately half the ground lost urn the decline from November 9 to December 17.
Renewed buying activities developed in the rails, and Now York Central. Atchison. New Haven, and other leaders of this department improved upon their recent highs. Rails used in the Dow-Jones averages climbed above 40 for the first time since December 5 With the action of the market pointing to higher prices, buying operations steadily gained momentum, and the day’s best levels were reached in the late afternoon.
National Dairy Products Active Among the nowk formed poaln In loner priced shares, the group operating in National Dairy 1’roduets uus particularly ag-grcs'uve, and the stock roM1 to a new high for the current advance on a largo turnoxer. Present indications are that Nutional Dairy Products will report a balance of SS..10 a share for 1981. against dividend requirements of S2.60 a share.
Some switching luis lately been reported from Borden into Nutionul Dairy Products, which is selling more than 10 points lower. While Borden had i>een expected to show around $4 a share for last year, recent street estimates have revised Borden’s probable balance downward to around $3.50 a share for 1931. In view of the outlook that National Dairy’s per share earnings for 1931 will be approximately the same as Borden’s, the lower priced issue lias br»en coining into greater favor in the dairy group.
Columbian Carbon Co.
Net profit of Columbian Carbon Co for 1931 will undoubtedly fall short of the estimates made in some quarters of S3 GO a share on the 538.420 capital shares outstanding. For the first nine months the company reported net profit of $1,406,015 after reserves, which was equal to $2.61 a share. However, the book deduction of $1,160,723 for depreciation and depiction in the period represented $2 15 n share.
The decline in natural gasoline prices in December to a low under 2 cents a gallon, against cents in November and above 5 cents in midAugust, removed the last chance of showing earnings sufficient to cover the previous $4 reg-
ular dividend requirements. A quarterly dividend of 75 cents was declared January 5. establishing a $3 annual basis. Carbon black prices are still at the low point and prospects in the natural gas field remain uncertain.
Reynolds* Earnings at New High
With the trend of cigarette consumption downward in 1881. the price advance in June last year undoubtedly helped the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. in reporting the record, earnings for 1931. During the current year, this price advance should help the company further, for it will be in effect for the full year in 1932, whereas it was effective for only the latter six months of 1981. While adverse tax legislation is threatening the cigarette industry, it is by no means certain that the various proposals will -become law.
Last year’s figures showed the greatest earnings in the history’ of the company, showed the dividend payments earned by a margin of 20%, and the company in the strongest financial position of its history. The stock is currently selling for only slightly more than ten times earnings, and to yield approximately 8%.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. in 1981 increased its holdings of its common stock to close to 400.000 shares. In the annual report, S. Clay Williams, president of the company, points out that the investment of $13,406,000 is almost entirely in the company’s own stock, at a price below the market price on December SL. 1931. The closing price on that day was 34 %, so that Reynold’s holdings must be in excess of 383,000 shares, or approximately the same number of shares as it held two years previous. Sale of the stock in the meantime, and its subsequent repurchase, has averaged down the cost of the stock-
prosperity by Contrast
En route through Virginia on a trip to New Oi leans recently, a partnei of a leading Wall Street firm was perusing a Lynchburg newspaper. In an account of the state of affairs on ( the Lynchburg Stock Exchange, the .feature which caught his eye was that no sales were reported for the previous day. Not only bad no transactions occurred, but out of a list of more ! than 50 shares there were bids in the market ( for only three issues. After reading this summary. the New York broker came to the conclusion that Wall Street had reasons for thankfulness after all
Car Loadin'^s Go - —
Car loadings f-»r the week ended January 2 witnessed the usual seasonal upturn that occurs in the first week of the year. Considering the low levels to which loadings declined m preceding weeks, the gain of 61,736 cars was in line with expectations While the percentage deci ease from the corresponding period of last year was 0.5‘N greater than was recorded in the immediately preceding week, the showing is not regarded as of much importance as formerly due to the favorable developments in the railroad fi»'ld. which should go far toward offsetting the anticipated decline in loadings in the first quarter of the current year from the 1931 period.
Results of the surcharges allowed by the Interstate Commerce Commission, which became effective January 4. are still to be heard iron1., but this increased revenue, plus favorable prospects for wage negotiations arc now being conducted in Chicago, is causing a generally better feeling in railroad circles.
Loadings for the week ended January 2 totaled 503.325 cars, a decrease of ISV, from the like week In 1031 and a reduction of 35 1% below the corresponding period two years ago In the seven days ended December 26. decrease from the came week in 1930 amounted to 17 6% and to 30 9% from the like period jn 1929 During the week of January 2	1932 increases
over tiie preceding week wore recorded .n shipments of all commodities w.th the cxeception of merchandise and ore.
Can Makers Buying Tinplate
Weekly trade reviews held forth hope foi increased steel activities, reporting tuat the two leading can companies were likely to place contracts this week for several hundred thousand tons of tinplate This business, it was stated, has been held up beyond its usual time, due to price negotiations Its absence from steel company books in December probably xs as a factor ir tfce unexpectedly large decrease in Vnited States Steel’s unfilled tonnage last month .
On the other hand it was pointed out that there has been a lack of significant improvement since the yoar-end lull, and gains in operations have been below even the conservative expectations of the industry. Motor car makers have helped a little with, their orders and production has advanced to 25% of capacity, but general buying remains slack
Other lines of consumption are not doing much, as many industrial plants have been slow in resuming after the holiday period. The price situation is not particularly good, but at Chicago the new 1 70 cents a pound level for bars, shapes and plates appears to have been established Scrap prices show little change, though there has been some firmness at Pittsburgh.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.