The Markets: Deadlock on Roosevelt Nomination Raise Compromise ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 2, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Deadlock on Roosevelt i'Comination liaise Cam promise Candidate Hopes Prices Up—National Biscuit Hits 2Vcrc Dote-
London market extremely active and higher with greatest interest evinced since 1928; British funds up sharply, German bonds strong.
Paris bourse firm except Rentes.
Wall Street failed to realize on its hopes for a definite development at the Democratic convention in Chicago, either favorable or unfavorable, for an indication as to the trend in prices. The convention, after taking* three ballots during the 24-hour continuous session, all of which gave a majority to Governor Roosevelt, but lacked the necessary two-thirds to nominate, adjourned until the evening.
With the first three ballots producing a virtual deadlock, hopes were high that a compromise candidate, in whom business would have confidence, would be agreed upon, and prices for the list, as a whole, strengthened perceptibly on later advices that Governor Roosevelt was losing strength. Belting odds were quoted as high as 10 to 1 against Roosevelt.
During the early part of the trading session on the New York Stock Exchange, several leading stocks again had dipped into new low ground. They included National Biscuit. LooseWiles, Air Reduction and International Harvester.
Short covering, on a substantial scale, incident to the three-day holiday, played an important part in the upswing in prices which, im The most part, were up from fractions to full points.
British C'on\erslon Helpful
The trend of events abroad, particularly in Great Britain, was extremely favorable and part reflection was given in markets in this country. Activity on the London market was the greatest since 1928. being induced by the plan of the British government to convert the British 5* r war loan to a	r basis. The
operation will save interest charges in excess of $100,000,000 annually. Its announcement followed closely on the rcauction tn 2'<■ in the Bank of England discount rate, the lowest since 1897.
The action of the Briti=h government had a pronounced repercussion in Continental countries, whose currencies advanced in relation to the pound and the American dollar, particularly France. Holland. Switzerland and Belgium, all of whom withdrew substantial amounts of gold from this country within the last few months Their currencies however, are still materially below the gold points
The improvement in stock prices also vxa<? aided hy a better lope m principal commodity markets, particularly cotton Gram and sugar held about steady.
Reserxe Bank Credit lncroimes $58,000,1100
The statement of condition of Federal Reserve banks fot the week ended June 29 was slightly more favorable than in the preceding week, although it gave recognition to month-end and half-year requirements It disclosed an increase of $58,000,000 in outstanding Reserve credit.
Excess reserve* .of member bank* were reduced to about $100,000,000. nr so. front the previously prevailing $250,000,000 hy demands
for half-yearly payments, but reserves continued far above needs. Tbe Reserve system purchased $71,000,000 of government securities to help offset the effect of the fiscal year-end, and of the banking difficulties in Chicago.
Money in circulation increased $144,000,000 during the week, largely because of the demands in Chicago incident to banking difficulties, as well as partly because of the half-year and holiday demands. Bill holdings advanced $10.000.000, the first sizeable increase in many weeks.
New York member banks reported a gain of $72,000,000 in total loans and investments, of which $32,000,000 was accounted for by advances In the form of “all other’ loans. $40.000,000 of government securities and $24,000,-OOOof other securities, offset by a decline of $24,000.000 in security Ioans. Net demand deposits were up $36,000,000.
Rail Executives Hopeful of Conferences
Carrier shares moved higher in line with the general market. Railroad authorities are hopeful of favorable developments from the various conferences being held by carrier executives over the present dilemma of the roads. The plans being discussed by the advisory committee of the Association of Railway Executives as to what should be done to bring about a more favorable attitude by the public, and with respect to helpful legislation such as the regulation of competitors, are expected to be crystallized and put into effect through the appointment of a committee composed of Daniel Willard. J J. Polley and Carl Gray.
The decision of these executives will he submitted to the advisory committer, and if the committee approve, the plans will be presented to member roads of the Association for ratification
The western roads are making progress with their plan to appoint a dictator to put an end tr unnecessary and costly competition among the 31 carriers involved It is pointed out that they could effect substantial savings by a pooling of passenger trams and equipment.
All in all. the many plans being worked out to accomplish savings in various directions should result in a large part of the gross dollar bc*ng transferred into net income, besides bringing about an improvement in traffic.
American Agricultural Chemical Weak
Weakness in capital stock of American Agricultural Chemical, of Delaware, which dipped to within a fraction of its old low of 3’-. reflects tne poor fertilizer season suffered bv the industry Agricultural’ fiscal year terminated on June 30. and it is probable that a substantial loss was suffered
The company’s capital comprise* only 317 -875 shares of no-par common stock which, al current market prices, is selling tor about $1.-J50.00O. whereas its net current assets as of June 30. 1931. the last published balance sheet, amounted ti» $13.663.249 Included m the total of current liabilities on that date was S3 363.500 of funded debt which was retired on August 1 1931. and against which the company showed cash of $5 978.69$ That debt retirement treed the company of anj obligation prior tn capital stork.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.