MARKET REACTS ON WHEAT BREAK: HEAVY SELLING CARRIES LEADERS DOWN ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 10, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Jpg. ARKET REACTS
ON WHEAT BREAK
Heavy Selling- Carries Leaders Down Sharply—Rails	„
Lead in Decline
I The Week Reviewed I
Week’s Active Stocks: Case. JI Chrysler Corp. du Font.......
Gen Motors ... Int Harvester. Int T & T .... Mont Ward .. . N Y Central .. Unit Aircraft. U S -Steel.....
The trading range
Sales 168100 314200 185300 421300 181400 146800 396100 159300 758100 360700
High 57 18% 43% 17% 29% 18% 16% 29 %» 32% 43%
which
Stocks
Low
40
13%
34% 13% 20% 8%
11 21% 21% 35
has
Chgs. —15 % 4%
Last 40	•
13% 34%— 9%’ 13%— 4% 20%— 8% 9%— 4% 11%— 4% 22%— 7% 22%— 7% 35%— 8%
_	_	prevailed in
stocks for more than ten days was broken decisively during; - the middle of the past week, heavy selling bringing about sharp declines in leading issues. After one day of convalescence on Thursday, when the stock market showed only modest recuperative powers, the list sagged off again under renewed pressure.
The break in rftockr was precipitated by an abrupt decline in wheat prices. Wall Street, looking for a stimulus to push stocks out of the narrow trading rut on the upside, had seized on the possibility of higher prices for wheat, and there had been numerous reports in 'the Street that wheat was ready for a rise, despite the c^lstinctly unfavorable statistical position of the commodity. When wheat broke sharply on Wednesday, stocks crumbled.
Some signs of a flattening out in the business pick-up also served to dampen enthusiasm for the long side of the market. While steel operations for the week ended Monday, according to the Dow-Jones compilation, were up 1 slightly, the gain was not as large as had been hoped for.
Car Loadings Less Favorable
Loadings of individual railroads, for the week ended October 1, generally showed wider declines from the like 1931 week than Hyd previous weeks. While traffic generally was ahead of the previous week, the fact that the comparison with the similar week of 1931 turned less favorable served to bring selling into the rail shares. During the period when the mar-'ket was swinging in a narrow range, the rails were extremely sluggish. They gave ground easily at the start of the decline, with Atchison, Union Pacific, New York Central and Delaware, Lackawanna & Western, among the weakest stocks in the list.
The difficulties of the Nickel Plate contributed to the lack of interest in rail shares. An application for the appointment of a receiver for the road was filed in Chicago by a holder of three of the road’s 6% notes, which fell due October 1, and the whole matter was placed before the court. The petition for a receiver was denied at the close of the week. Deposits of the notes came in swiftly just before the maturity date, but the total deposited was only slightly more than 70% of the amount outstanding. in contrast to the Interstate Commerce Commission’s stipulation that ••substantially all” the noteholders would have to assent to the refinancing plan if the road were to receive funds to consummate the plan.
Chain’s Sales Better in September
Cham and mail order store sales for September, which appeared during the week, gave proof of the important gains in business scored m September over August. In a dumber of cases, the gains over August, on a percentage basis, were the largest in the past five years, but the figures failed to stimulate any interest in stocks of important chain store or mail order house companies, Sears and Montgomery Ward, Woolwooth, J. C. Penney and others sold off with the rest of the list.
Figures on electric output for the latest week were mildly better than those for the previous week, and the decline from the like 1931 week was smaller. So far, however, there has been no important pick-up in utility company earnings.
Gold Exchanges Rise
After almost two weeks of complete inertia, the foreign exchanges sprang to life on Thursday and Friday. Led by francs, the gold standard currencies registered sweeping gains, especially on Friday when guilders advanced more than 8 points, francs a whole point and Swiss francs 4 points. Belgas joined the rise belatedly, while even pesetas shared a little on Friday. Sterling, marks, lire and the Scandinavians failed to respond.
A11 in all, the gold currencies moved from a shade below par to substantial premiums over the dollar, half way to the gold points in the case ot francs and guilders. Sterling and its satellites ended the week pretty much unchanged. marks lost 4, and lire, after jumping about, finished unchanged. Canadian dollars ruled around 91 cents most of the week, but fell off slightly at the close. Yen reacted sharply early in the period because of the unfavorable League of Nations commission report on Manchuria but later recovered most of the loss.
Small Movement Produces Large Gains .
The sudden reversal of trend in the gold exchanges can best be explained by a moderate amount of liquidation of securities held here oy foreigners and the withdrawal of the proceeds from New York. The exchanges were in such a position that even a small amount of such selling would have been enough to produce sharp gains. To begin with, the market for all currencies, except perhaps sterling, has been extremely narrow. In addition, most of the Continental rates had been weakened by seasonal influences, and naturally, there was a substantial short interest in view of the anticipation. Short covering, aided by the thin market, consequently was regarded as the cause for the sweeping gains in the face of only moderate withdrawal of funds.
How long strength in the exchanges will continue depends, of course, on political developments here. The current picture must appear very confused and uncertain to the foreigner. Not until the elections are out of the way, thus ridding both the exchange markets and the stock and commodity markets of their unsettling influence, will it be possible to evaluate accurately the relative positions of the exchanges.
Money Rates Low
The ease in the money market became slightly more pronounced last week, although quoted rates declined only in the case of highest grade commercial paper, which is currently quoted against 1%*% a week ago. For the past four weeks the member banks in New York City have been carrying excess reserves of
more than $220,000,000, and so long as this condition lasts money rates will be extremely low.
The changes in the weekly bank statements were influenced by the month-end, which gave them a superficially unfavorable aspect. As a matter of fact, however, they were very favorable, the $44,000,000 increase in circulation having been considerably smaller than in the corresponding week of previous years, and the decline in total loans and investments of New York banks also having been less than usual for the September month,-end.
Banks reduced their indebtedness to the Federal Reserve further to $333,000,000, a new low for the year and $130,000,000 below a year ago. This is the first time this Item has been more favorable than a year ago. Reserve deposits also rose to a position better than a year ago, and at $2,284,000,000 are the highest in
1932.
The drop in holdings of government securities shown by the 12 Federal Reserve banks merely cancelled the rise of the preceding week and was due to a temporary special transaction. It is not of any significance and does not indicate a change of Reserve bank policy.
Steel operations maintained the 17%% rate of the preceding week, with independent companies losing a little ground during the week and the United States Steel Corp, making a slight gain.
Steel Guins Slacken	■
The first week in October witnessed a continuation of the upward trend of September, but with a slackening in the rate of gain. Miscellaneous consumers continue to be the outstanding buyers. The larger users have not yet entered the market for big	and
even when this demand develops the amount is not expected to be as large as in normal periods for this season of the year.
Railroad buying for repair work is anticipated in the next few weeks, because the carriers’ primary interest is in this necessity. Rail orders may be placed but the tonnages will be small. A number of roads are figuring on rail replacements to be made in the spring
Greater activity in tin plate plants has resulted in larger shipments of semi-finished steel, with prices firmly held. There have been reports of concessions in sheets, but the leading interests have adopted advances from the lower levels which prevailed prior to October 1.
Cotton Breaks on Report
Cotton futures in the 45 minutes of trading on Saturday morning that followed publication of the government crop report broke for losses of $1.50 a bale from prices immediately prior to the report, or $2.50 a bale from the previous close. The report was 115.000 bales higher than the September forecast and about 300,000 to 400.000 higher than generally anticipated. The market apparently went into the report with a big long interest, for the government figure formed a signal for heavy liquidation. Buying by mills and the trade here and abroad checked the decline.
Previous to Saturday morning, the market backed and filled over the comparatively narrow range of $2 a bale with the line of general price trend for the week slightly upward in face of a pronounced down movement in stocks and the grains.
The holding movement was strengthened by an announcement from the Department of Agriculture that it would accept cotton at 9 cents a pound, or 2 cents above the current market price, as collateral for seed and production loans it had made, amounting to a total of $64,000,000.
It had originally been intended that the farmer should sell his cotton in order to pay off the loans. Cotton placed by the farmer with the department as collateral may be sold at the discretion of the farmer until March 1,
1933.	and afterward at the discretion of the department.
Grain Prices nt New Lows
Successive breaks in Chicago grain markets, starting in the middle of the week, brought all wheat deliveries, also corn, oats and rye, to new low marks for the season.
Weakness at Winnipeg, where the market was artificially pegged, first at 51% cents for December and afterward on fractions downward toward the 50-cent line, was transmitted to Chicago, but in the grain trade heavy liquidation that came into the Chicago market was attributed mainly to developments in the political campaign, which were interpreted as holding out no prospect for immediate price improvement from that source.
December at Chicago crossed the half dollar market to sell on Saturday morning at 48% cents, and closed that day at 49%. as against last week’s closing price of 54 cents.
Canadian Marketings Heavy
Country marketings in the Canadian Northwest continued on a fairly large scale, but some observers at Winnipeg reported a leu-up in the volume of hedges. The Chicago market received some support in the way of undoing of spreads with Winnipeg.
Three of the private statisticians estimated the spring wheat crop in the three Canadian provinces at from 424,000,000 to 444,000.000 bushels. Their reports averaged 433,000,000, comparing with the government’s estimate last month of 446,000,000 bushels.
Corn moved witl the wheat market. An Indifferent demand for cash corn, combined with favorable weather for maturing the new crop, operated against rallies. The government weekly weather report said that the crop was practically safe from frost in all sections where ; it was liable to be damaged. Private reports indicated an increase of 58,000,000 bushels over : the government’s September crop figure. Tbe October report by the government will be issued after the close of the market on Monday.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.