Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 6, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 15
<r*g in fair volume. Some machinery manufacturers are encouraged by this, for it shows that the heavy, capital goods industries, which have been slow to share in the general business recovery, are emerging from the doldrums.
market
Diary
OUl money renew*]....... Ttm* money, ®O day*...... Acceptances, SO day*.......
Commercial paper......... Krancr. cables..........-
Sterling cable*............ Mew York bank rate...... Reserve System ratio ......
Coffee, JUo. December..... Copper, delivered ........
Corn, December..........., Cotton, March.........
Rides, December.......... Lead, New York.............
Cat*. December...........
Rubber, No. 1 etand’d Dec. Bilk. raw. December......
Silver, New York...........
8us*r. raw, December— . Tin. December............
Wheat. December..........
Wool top*. December......
Zinc, East St. I^ouls....
Tuesday	
1033	1032
%%	1*
%©i%	%%
% <??»>%	%r©%%
	1%©%%
.0618%	.0300%
5.17%	3.20%
2%	2% %
64 8%	64.1%
5.06	6.10
8	
43%	22%
10.16	5.74
0.50	4.00
4.15	3.00
33%	14%
8.00	3.16
1.37	1.38
43%	25%
1.21	0.71
52.75	21.75
84%	43%
105 0	50.0
4.50	3.125
Stocks threw off the restraint of the past few days, broke away from the Influence of the foreign exchange market and made a determined attempt to scale new heights on the current recovery. The vigor with which it started after its objective and the ease with which leaders like American Can, du Font, -Allied Chemical and -Johns Manville attained new highs for the current year, attracted a broad following in the market and volume of dealings expanded to the best levels since around mid-November.
Undiscouraged by the unchanged price for domestic gold, at $34.01 an ounce for the fourth successive day, the market started out early to discount the growing evidence of Improved business, as exemplified by the latest figures on steel production and retail trade. The industrials set ‘he pace for the early rise and the rails were rj .i long In adding impetus to the forward
■ >t. By 3 o’clock 30 industrial stocks used •i the Dow-Jones averages stood at 101.99 at‘ the highest levels since the third week in September, and 3.1 points higher on the day. The rails at the close were a bare fraction under the November 21st highs, at 39.83, but their percentage gain was even greater than the industrials. Sentiment on the rail stocks was aided by the action of Atchison directors in declaring a dividend of $3.30 on the 5% preferred stock, against a payment of $1.50 six months ago, together with the statement of officials that the increased payment was beifig made out of undivided net profits for the past fiscal year.
Wheat Spurts After Pause
The grains markets were a little backward in the early morning, still somewhat restrained by the rallying tendencies m the dollar and the administration’s apparent unwillingness to weaken the dollar by raising the gold price. But later in the morning the exceptional strength in stocks was the determining factor and wheat shot up from mere fractional gams to more than 3 cents a bushel. Cotton advanced from 50 cents to $1 a bale.
The dollar was strong early in the foreign exchange market but later it weakened. The pound sterling in this market fluctuated in an area between $5.09 and $5.17. A feature of the foreign exchange market was the strength of the franc against sterling.
Government bonds moved Irregularly, while the foreign list, particularly the “gold bloc’’ issues, were strong. Domestic corporation bonds advanced with stocks.
In some quarters In Wall’ Street ‘part of the strength in the market was attributed to news from Washington of a House subcommit-+	«•1 iz,	I a. am a .m
s...	. v. .	ill lUiU
present income tax law, desigmed to raise $270,000.000 in new federal revenue. The section dealing with capital gain and loss provisions was particularly interesting to the Street. This
section declared that gains or losses from the sale of property would be measured ‘ for tax purposes by the length of time the property was held. Under this plan taxation would fall more heavily on profits taken quickly than on profits t-H-kep over a period of years, and hence it was assumed by the Street that large financiers would be inclined to hold stocks for long period to avoid heavy taxes.
Southern Railway’s Business Improves
After a brief lapse recently, during which period Southern Railway system’s revenues fell below a year ago, latest figures show a resumption of the uptrend, with revenues again ahead of 1932. M«^y consider this a significant development, for Southern Railway was one of the first roads to emerge from the low point of the business depression in 1932.
Southern roads generally have been making a comparatively good showing. In fact, the South and West have been considerably ahead of the rest of the country for some time, as an analysis of retail trade figures will show. The improved purchasing power of the farmers has been greatly in evidence in that part of the country.
Steel Activity Broadening
Figures of the American Iron and Steel Institute for the week beginning December 4, showing operations for the steel trade at 28 3% of ingot capacity against 26.8% in the pre-t ceding week confirm recent predictions of improvement in that trade. More significant than ingot production, however, are the reports from Youngstown and a few other sections that finishing mH] schedules are being increased. Early this spring the finishing mill schedules were considerably better than the ingot figures indicated, and it was not until weeks later that the increased activity at finishing mills was reflected in ingot production. Finishing mills are more closely identified with the selling division of large steel companies, and if they are active the probabilities arc the consumer demand has improved. Finishing mill activity, moreover, is a more accurate guide to earnings of the large producers.
,	N. Y. Telephone Xnasea
Officials of American Telephone & Telegraph Co. arc not disturbed by the November loss of 1,341 phones for New York Telephone Co., the largest operating company in the Bell system. To some extent, of course. New York Telephone’s loss reflects the trend in this part of the country. which appears to be more sluggish than in other sections. In October the New York company had a gam of 1,899 phones and in September a gain of 9,912 phones. Officials do not believe the lass will continue, for the trend appears definitely to be toward higher levels generally.
Cash Register’s Drive for Business
Encouraged by the marked improvement in retail sales within the past month, and by the passing of prohibition. National Cash Register Co has started a drive for an increased volume of business. As soon as it becomes clearer how liquor will be sold in various parts of the country, National Cash Register Co. can decide on what type of machine to push. The new cash registers developed by the company arc well equipped to handle itemized accounts, recording sales taxes, etc. and eliminating much of the bookkeeping which might be necessary otherwise.
Inquiry for Heavy Machinery Improves
Working somewhat against the seasonal trend, inquiries and demand for machine tools has been picking up. The demand for light tools is particularly good. So far orders for heavy tools have been lacking, but the inquiry for the latter type of equipment is now dcvelop-
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Increased earnings		Since Oct. 1 		 364	Additions yesterday 4
Decreased earnings ..		 185	..
Unchanged dividends ,		 349	16
Resumed dividends ..	_	 37	4
Decreased dividends .		 5	
Increased dividends .		 39	3
Omitted dividends . .		 5	
Initial dividends ....		 7	• ,
High and Ix)w Prices
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, sixteen stocks made new highs and four stocks made new lows, for the year 1933.
New Highs
Allied Chem’l Amer Can BunhT H ct pf Continent Can du Font de N Basel Atta*..
Col G&E 6pf. t EnffPS pf ww i
Hercule* l*ow John* Mnmll Mttytna pf xw Monsanto Ch’l Put be Excb A
New Lows Kelsey Hay B
Phoenix Ro*. Phoenix fl pf United ( .irhni) Wnrren FyfcP Wrigley, Wm
Pub S NJ 6pt
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.