Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 6, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 19
Abreast of
the Market
Decreased dividends , Increased dividends . Deferred dividends . Omitted dividends ..
7
43
5
’i
• •
Market
Call money renewal........
Time money, 90 days......
Acceptances, 90 days......
Commercial paper..........
Franes, cables ...........
Sterling cables ........
New York bank rate.......*
Reserve System ratio......
Coffee, Rio, September.... Copper, delivered .......... Core, September.......... Cotton. October...........
Rides, September.........s
Lead. New York............
Oats.' September..........
Ruber, No. 1 etand’d Sept. Silk, raw, October........
Stiver, New York..,.,.... Sujar, raw, September.... Tin, September .........,
Wheat, September,........~.
Wool tops, September.... Zine, East St. Louis......
1932
y
2% .0392 3.4BU
eo.4%
7.55
6
30*1
£.86
6.25
3 60
17H
4.40
1.76
28H
1.09
24.45
64 H
61.00 4.65^4.70
With little inspiration In the Labor Day and week-end news, prices on the New York Stock Exchange opened the new week with slowly drifting tendencies towards lower levels. No material pressure was placed upon the market until just before the close, when activity picked up suddenly and found the blds rather thin.
Week-end news seemed to center around the chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corp.; Jesse H. Jones, and his efforts to evolve a plan for financing NRA subscribers over the period of Increased operating costs, due to application of NRA policies. Since the Reconstruction Finance Corp, is without authorization to make direct Ioans to manufacturers, plans to bring this activity within the corporation's scope through the organization of mortgage loan companies were considered.
If anything, this tended to emphasize the difficulties likely to confront manufacturers in the early stages of the “new deal," or at least until increased returns from higher prices and improved purchasing power were availanle. An attitude of caution, therefore, permeated the commodity markets and stock exchanges. Wheat closed with losses of 114 cents to 2U cents a bushel at Chicago, rye was off more than 2 cents on the day, while corn and oats showed smaller losses. Cotton prices were $2 a bale lower.
The day’s developments were not without some element of cheer. Kresge Co. resumed dividends on the common stock, with disbursement of 20 cents, the first since January 3, 1933. Philip Morris Consolidated, Inc., declared a dividend of ?5.979225, clearing up all the accrued dividends on the Class A stock, and declared the regular quarterly dividend of 43 cents on the stock. Great Western Sugar resumed dividends on the common with a quarterly payment of 60 cents, the first dividend since 1930. Celanese Corp, of America declared a $4 dividend against accumulations on the first participating 7% preferred.
Little Evidence of Liquidation
Ordinarily a drop of 10 to 12 points in steel operations, such as has occurred in the past month, might well influence a bearish sentiment on general business. The dwindling in volume on the stock exchanges and the lack of any evidence of frightened liquidation by large holders indicates a general faith in the ultimate success of the administration’s efforts.
Stockholders lists of large corporation, such as United States Steel, Pennsylvania Railroad and, more recently, American Telephone, have been showing a steady decline in the number of holders. While this indicates that somo of the odd-lot and smaller holders of stocks may be____________________o_
selling, the concentration of stock in fewer Unchanged dividends
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
hands, among those accustomed to investing in large quantities, augurs well for the future, i: suggests that large interests, who were not or. the buying side in 1930, 1931 and 1932, have more confidence today.
Utilities In Better Favor
A better sentiment toward the public utilities is slowly crystallizing. In the past severs? months the mere mention of a public utility stock was enough to invite every conceivable kind of a bearish attack. In the first place, it was' argued they would suffer through higher commodity prices since their rates are fixed and their costs could mount Every local public service commission seemed to have some inquiry into the utility rate structure under way on the grounds that they were excessively high for a public with depression incomes. Hemmed in whether times were good or bad, the utilities had few friends.
Meanwhile, power output showed marked gains through the late spring and early summer, and the recent normal seasonal recession appears moderate considering the extent of the rise. While the increased business has been slow in finding its way to net earnings, these companies are now entering the normally profitable autumn season where more progress may be noted. The Dow-Jones utility average, moreover, is well behind the rails and industrials In price.
Machine Tool Shops More Active
Aside from General Motors and Chrysler, the automobile companies spent little or no money in the first half of this year in equipping their plants for new models. Some of the smaller independents were inclined to conserve their resources and spend as little as possible. Realizing that the two leaders profited immensely in the second quarter through their good fortune in running into an improved demand, these smaller companies are preparing to improve models and offer stiffer competition. This 1b benefiting the machine tool companies, which ore now finding a fairly active Inquiry for tools of every size, and description. The tendency of motor companies to push car sales in the medium price field also is helping the tool companies,
.	Road May Buy Locomotives
The first locomotive inquiry for locomotives in nearly two years may enter the market next month if directors of a northwestern road authorize the purchase of 25 engines. While there is still some doubt that directors will approve the purchase, it is evident that operating officials at least are somewhat more confident and realize a need for new equipment, for previously any such request could not get beyond the president of the road. There are specifications for from 200 to 250 locomotives drawn up and ready for construction, but the presidents of the roads involved will not submit the matter to directors as yet, feeling the time is not quite ripe.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Increased earnings Decreased earnings
Since
July 1
384
283
470
High and Low Prices
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 1 stock made a
jl; 10 stocks made new highs and new low for the year 1933, New Highs Grt W Sog pf Homretaka Ml Leh Port C pf
New Low
CcUIai & Aik Com Cr 8 pfB tHorshlera pt Gm J tai Ed la
Midland Sil P PlrelU Co____
Warren Fy&J?
Fox Film A..
Gossip”—
Those. who believed that the talk anent a rise immediately following Labor'Day would be discounted ahead were not surprised that a sharp profit-taking movement occurred Tuesday. A number of small traders had bought stocks right up to the close Friday in expectation of a strong, act ve market Tuesday. As is frequently tfie case, "hey were disappointed, and with the traders selling these disappointed ones sold out and brough about a sizable decline in the final hour of the day.
The Street was not Impressed with the selling, arguing that stocks are in strong hands (for the most part traders who are looking for important profits in the future) and that the pressure is not likely to bring out large amounts of stocks. Some brokers reported buying by some of their larger clients on the reaction.
There is still a large total of absentees from the Street among which are leading traders.
• • »
There is some buying of tobacco stocks on reports in the Street that cigarette prices may be advanced this month;
• • • .
Those who have been buyers of International Telephone & Telegraph have been adding to their holdings in the belief that several departments are doing a record business and that the Postal company's final quarter, on present indications, will make a strong showing.
• » »
Sponsorship in some of the oils has been becoming quite active. It is heard In the Street that several Standard Oil shares are likely to come in for a lot of bullish attention in the next few weeks. Among those mentioned are Atlantic Refining and Standard Oil of New Jersey. Public Interest in Amerada, Plymouth Oil and Continental Oil has increased considerably, with the first named selling around the highest figure in its history and latter two issues around the 1933 top levels.
• » •
A sharp increase in ore loadings on the Great Northern Railway has brought about buying of the stock at rising prices. The road’s ear loadings for August were 75,974 compared with 55,963 in July and 51,143 in August last year.
» s »
It is now ten days to the deadline when all accounts-in the Street must be in line with the new marginal requirements as formulated by the Stock Exchange. Brokers say that practically all of their accounts are already within the rules and that all of them will be by the zero hour.
“Pure
—Broad Street Gossip
Additions yesterday 1 3 21