Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 27, 1933; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
Abreast of
the
Market
Market Diary			
Call -mopey renewal. - •		Friday 3033 - 1%	1932	' ' 2%%
Time money, 90 days..		1%'	1%%
Acceptances, 90 days..			i®%on%
Commercial paper			1% 02%%	2%%
Erancs, cables ........		.0430%	.0394«
Sterlloi; cables			X92	3.69%
New York bank rate..		.2%%	3%
Reserve System ratio..		07.8%	63.1%
Coffee. Rio. July				3.50	6.60
Copper, delivered. .	.		7% Horn.	5%
Corn, July............		43%	32%
Cotton, July			8.92	5.52
Hides. September	,		11.53	4.40
X^ead. New York				3.75	3.00
Oats. July			25	22%
Rubber. No. 1 stand’d	July	3.23	2.79
Silk, raw. July				1.53	1.12
Silver, New York			33%	27%
Sugar. raw. July				1.44	0.61
Tin. July			33.00	20.25
Wheat. July 					72%	59%
Wool tops. July				77.00	52.50
Zinc. East St. Zx>ule..		3.95(74.00	2.875
Overnight announcement of the reduction in the bank rate and the. sharp decline in brokers' loans served as a spur to the securities markets yesterday. Declaration of the regular dividends by General Electric, Chesapeake & Okie and Chesapeake Corp, aided the stock market, as did week-end news from the steel centers, pointing to another small advance in the rate of operations. Renewed strength in commodities also stimulated buying in equities.
Late news of the presentation to the House of an Administration measure legalizing the payment of debts in legal tender other than gold, brought a flood of buying into stocks at the finish which carried the list into new high ground.	z
There were numerous spectacular run-ups in stocks. U. S. Industrial Alcohol, ■which advanced 5% points Thursday, moved up 8 more in the early dealings, and maintained almost all the gain. National Distillers marched up to a new top, at 70, and there were upswings in low-priced stacks like Brunswick-Balke-Col-lender, Park & Tilford and others In the repeal group. Gold stocks did better than any other group, with Homestake furnishing inspiring leadership. The stock closed at 216%, up 17%. a new top. McIntyre Porcupine, Dome, Alaska-Juneau and Noranda all were strong, too./ Leadership shifted rapidly, with the agricultural implement stocks spurting violently at the start of the final hour. Pullman finished at 46, up 9, and New York &. Harlem soared 21 points. Trading volume totaled 4,300,000 shares, with 1,360,000 changing hands in the last hour.
High-grade railroad bonds led the forward movement in the bond market. Industrial bonds were firm, but gains in this group were not as spectacular as they have been in the recent past. Utility bonds were quiet, while governments ranged higher.
Wheat traveled over a fairly wide price range, closing strong, up % to 1% cents a bushel. Corn forged ahead, too, and other grains were higher. Cotton spurted sharply, running up $2 a bale.
Lower prices were the rule in the London market. German Government bonds slipped off slightly. British funds held steady. In Paris, the Bourse was irregular in inactive trading.
cutting down its funded debt through operations of the sinking fund, which retires roughly $1,~ 120,000 principal amount of the Chesapeake Corp. 5s a year. Taken together, the two operations are cutting down the obligations ahead of Chesapeake Corp, common stock by roughly $3,120,000 a year. With Chesapeake & Ohio selling at 36, Chesapeake Corp, common has a break-up value of just about $40 a share.
Sterling Easier
The course of sterling yesterday aroused some comment in the financial district. Recently, every -move made in this country which might be construed as indicating that we were pushing toward an inflationary policy has been reflected immediately in a sharp advance • In sterling. Yesterday, however, sterling declined despite the overnight announcement of the cut in the bank rate and the publication of the banking statements showing that the Federal had purchased $25,000,000 in governments.
Possibility of Gold Market Here *
There is growing talk of possibility of establishment of something in the line of an open market for gold in this ebuntry/ similar to the market in London. The depreciation of the dollar In terms of the gold currencies, in the foreign exchange market, hafe lowered the gold value of the dollar. This is merely another way of saying that the price of gold has gone up in terms of dollars.
Up to the present, the government has taken no cognizance of the change in the dollar value of gold which has taken place in the last month. The official price for gold, and the only price which producers of gold in this country can obtain, Is $20.67 per fine ounce. On the basis of current quotations far French francs, however, an ounce of fine gold is worth about $24.08.
Prior to actual suspension of the gold standard in this country, quotations for gold stocks Doomed on the belief that inflation was imminent which would bring about an increase in the dollar value of gold. This reasoning promised to turn into something of a canard after actual suspension of gold because it developed that the producers would not be able to obtain the full dollar value for their output. Commodity prices have risen and presumably operating costs, taut the price which the producers can get for their product has remained* unchanged.
As the situation now exists, a penalty is placed on gold producers and any gold which might be sent to this country, as for example from Canada, is being diverted to London wherp the premium can be obtained with which to buy depreciated dollars. Canada was quick to realize this difficulty, and immediately after she prohibited gold exports in October, 1931, the government began the purchase of the output of Canadian mines and paid the producers the premium arising from depreciation of Canadian funds.	v
and Low Prices
Friday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 235 stocks made new highs and one stock made a n ew low, for the year 1933.
Berle’s Stand on Carrier Financing
The position of A. A. Berle as special assistant to the directors of the Reconstruction Finance Corp, with regard to railroad matters makes his statement in regard to railroad financing of peculiar significance. The Reconstruction Finance Corp, is one of the big creditors of the railroads, having loaned them around $335,000,000 over the last 15 months, and apparently is going to be on the watch over the methods of railroad financing undertaken in the future.
Mr. Berle's position on the need for the inclusion of sinking fund provisions in new railroad bond issues is shared by many of the leading railroad bond students in the financial community. It is fully recognized now that the period of great railroad building is a thing of the past, and the tendency should be toward cutting down debt on existing structures. As far as doing railroad financing through issuance of stock, it is pretty hard to see how investors could be lured into purchasing railroad stocks until there are more definite indications that the railroad industry is entering an era of good times. The current level of traffic, for many roads, is barely sufficient to cover interest on their funded debt, and there are still possibilities that, unless the Reconstruction Finance Corp, continues to come to the aid of a few weak carriers, receiverships will occur.
It is possible that within the next six months. If the Administration’s railroad and industrial problems are pushed through, the railroad picture will be changed sufficiently to permit a few of the strongest carriers to do stock financing. Those carriers, however, are the ones that don't have to do any financing.
New Cut in CHK Loans Ahead
Continuance of the regular dividend by Chesapeake & Ohio Railway means * that on July 1 the Chesapeake Corp., unless there is an abrupt change in tbe policy which has been pursued for a year, will make another payment of $500,000 toward reducing its bank loans. Such a payment would cut the bank loans to. $30,000,000, compared with the high point for the loans in question of $32,000,000. The corporation’s other loans, mostly short-term, were practically eliminated by early 1933.
The first step toward cutting down the Chesapeake Corp, unfunded debt burden was taken in July. 1932, when the dividend payment was cut to 50 cents quarterly from 75 cents. That permitted the corporation to start making payments of $500,000 quarterly toward eliminating its bank loans. At the same time as these bank loans are .being reduced, the company is
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.