Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 20, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Market
Hiary '
Call money renewal.........
Time money, 30 days........
Acceptances, 90 days.......
Commercial paper...........
Francs, cables.............
Sterllni; cables...........
New York bank rate...... Reserve System ratio......
Coffee, Rio. July..........
Copper, delivered..........
Com. July.................
Cotton. July...............
Hides, September...........
Lead. New York.............
Oats. July.................
Rubber, No. 1 stand’d July Silk, raw, July...........
Silver, New York...........
Susar, raw, July...........
Tin. July..................
Wheat. July...............„
Wool tops, July ...........
Zinc. Rast St. Louis.......
Monday
J033	1932
1%	2%%
i%	
	or i%
	
.0481	.0392 Si
4.14%	2.60%
	3%
68.3%	-	09.4%
5.66	6.28
8 Nominal	5%
46S*	30%
9.23	5.19
22.00	3.80
4.20	3.00
32	X	20%
5.95	2.66
2.06	1.19
36	27%
1.37	0.81
41.70	39.25
76 K	48%
85.00	48 00
4.25^'4.30	2 80
New evidence that the Administration is bent on bringing about a further rise in the domestic price level before entering; into international monetary agreements revived inflationary excitement and brought about a specacular rise in prices for securities and commodities in the opening- session of the week. The Administration’s determination was demonstrated in the rejection of the proposed currency stabilization agreement, the chief item in the week-end news, and authoritative statements from the	a-
ury Department, again pointing out the necessity of a rise in world prices.
The new evidence of the Administration’s stand wns<pll the markets needed to go on, but cheering reports on the trend of business also served to buoy the list. Excellent May railroad reports, and a good loadings statement from the Chesapeake & Ohio for the week ended June 17; strength in sterling, which moved up to $4.15, and higher prices for commodities formed an additional background for the sharp rise.
The stock market was strong from the opening, and there was practically no let-up in the advance throughout the session. Early gains were all extended in the later dealings, and advances ran to 8 points or more in some stocks, with National Distillers, United States Industrial Alcohol, Union Pacific, du Pont and others leading. Many stocks touched new highs for the upswing, and trading volume reached 5,480,000 shares
Speculative Rails Lead Rond Rise
All grades of bonds shared in a broad upswung in the bond market. Speculative railroad issues were among the leaders, sharing in the improvement in the railroad stocks. A big demand for industrial bonds again developed. Government issues were a shade higher, and German bonds, after early weakness, staged a general advance, recovering the ground lost. The bond market was not as spectacular as the stock market, where innumerable issues surged ahead steadily throughout the session.
Major commodities staged a sharp advance in market value under a new rush of buying stimulated by the Administration’s refusal to stabilize the dollar at the London Economic Conference. Grains and cotton were predominant in the advance.
Wheat prices opened at Chicago at gains ranging to 1% cents a bu*hel. Brisk buying extended the advances to close to 3 cents a bushel duimg the day with bullish sentiment responding to reports of material crop damage in the Northwest and Canada. At the close, wheat showed gains of from 2*^ to 2«% cents a bushel with September at 78^
Other grains shared in the upswing and corn, oats and rye sold at new season highs. December.oats sold at 35 cents a bushel, the highest price for any delivery’ of oats since December, 1930.	t
Cotton, Rubber, Copper Up
Heavy buying pressure caried cotton to gains of from $1 to 51.25 a bale in the early dealings. Publication at noon of the Administration’s plans for retirement of at least 10,000,000 acres of cotton lands from production brought profittaking but fresh buying from the trade and from speculative interests steadied- the market. At the close cotton was up $1.50 a bale.
Revising the Outlook
The week-end developments, particularly the American rejection of an immediate agreement to stabilize currencies, put a different complexion on the outlook for the American securities markets over the weeks ahead. In rejecting the stabilization proposal, the Administration made it clear that it did not wish at this time to interfere with the rising trend of prices in this country. With Governor Harrison of the Federal Reserve Bank and Dr. O. M. W. Sprague, special adviser to the government on currency matters, returning to this countr.y there is little prospect of any agreement on currency stabilization in the ofling. That frees the securities markets from the restraint placed on them in the last week. Movements of the pound sterling will continue to be the immediate gauge of inflation prospects m this country, and in some quarters an extension of the rise in the pound is considered very likely.
Over the next fortnight, the London Conference sessions will be devoted largely to committee meetings. While these are important in laying the ground-work for future discussions of major points, definite progress on moot questions does not appear to be a^ near-term prospect.	“
In view of the President’s oft-repeated declarations about the necessity of bringing about a rise in the domestic price level to a figure corresponding to the 1909-1914 average, it is not surprising that a flat program for currency stabilization was rejected for the time being. It is quite possible, however, that if the rising trend of domestic prices is continued, currency stabilization again will come up before the Economic Conference adjourns.
just requirements of holders of Interborough and B.-M. T. obligations.
Unification or a higher fare are hardly likely at the present time. A more logical expectation would be that conferences looking toward unification would be pushed again after the coming Mayoralty election.
Upturn for Chesapeake & Ohio
Chesapeake & Ohio's* May report showed that almost all the increase in the road's operating revenues over May, 1932, had been carried through to operating income, indicating that the management is not relaxing its tight hold on operating expenses, despite the marked improvement in business. ” Gross revenues for the month were up just about $800,000, and operating income advanced $460,000. Surplus after charges showed a gain of almost $500,000 above May, 1932.
More important than the earnings figures was the loadings report for the week ended June 17. For the week, traffic originated on the C. & O.’s own lines was up just about 32% from the similar week of 1932. C. & O.’s traffic has been running very sharply ahead of the like month a year ago for some time, but the advance in the latest week is the widest scored so far. Tbe road earned only 13 cents a share on the common stock in June, 1932, and it is quite possible that earnings for the month this year will be more than double that amount.
In 1932, C. & O. earned only $1.14 a share in the first six months, and wound up the year with surplus after charges equal to $S.05 a share. It is quite obvious that C. & O. should report net for the first six months of this year equal to better than $1.30 a share on the common. and if the road has a normal increase in the final half-year, net should run to better than $4 a share on the stock for the full year.
Recovery Bill Aids Stocks
Persistent strength in various groups of stocks, and renewed activity in a number of issues, long dormant, reflects- the influence of the National Industrial Recovery Act. Construction industry shares continued yesterday the advance begun a week ago, when the measure was put through. Johns-Manville again was the leader of the group.
Strength in the coal company issues, long neglected, was a feature yesterday. Pittston, controlled by the Van Sweringen interests, doubled in value. The stock opened at 2%, ran up to 7, and closed at 5%, a new high and comparing with a year’s low of %. Pittsburgh Coal, closing at 19, scored a point advance, and there were wide gains in other coal issues. The prospect of united action by coal companies, under the terms of the Industrial Recovery Act, to bring about a higher level of prices and general betterment in the industry, brought buying into these stocks.
Rail Average at New Top
The rally in the railroad shares yesterday carried tbe Dow-Jones rail average to a new high close for the upswing at 44.73. The average at that level was up 30/100ths of a point from the June 12 close of 44.43, the previous high. While the industrial average moved up 5.76 points yesterday, the close of 95.99 was fractionally under the June 12 top of 96.75. The utility average finished a little more than a point under the June 12 high.
How They Stanc
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and
arc not duplicated.		
Since		Additions
Increased earnings		April 1 	 219	Saturday 3
Decreased earnings .. .	.....	613	3
Unchanged dividends .		 785	17
Decreased dividends ...		 65	1
Increased dividends .. .		 18	
Initial dividends				
High and	Low Prices	
Monday, on 99 stocks made a new low, for
itock Exchange, no stock made
Ad<lrrwi«o 'till Alpha 1* Cent Ant llTK'ituntic Am LocoirmtT Am Kiidintnr. Am Kiidbb pf Am Ship A O Am NIHphldz, Rucym» Erie. Buc.r K ct pf. Budd Mfir < n. Budd Mfp pf. Caterpillar Tr Century Rib CentaryRIb pf Certain teed . CMMFtl* pf. Ch Pnrutnutlc Ch I'ni'ii *11 pf Clir>nlcr . Coro-Coin A. Colum Pict ct Comml Credit Com <‘r 6’/2 pf Com lav Tr . Com bnlvcnt* Continent Can Cutler Unnt'r Ooerr 31 <’«» Pt Electric Boat.
the New York S new highs and the year 1933.
New Highs KlkVlom Coal Endicott John Eureka V»r*m Federated I> b Fnundnt'n Co. Gen Am ln» Gm Anplinlt. t.en’l Bronte. General Cljtar Grn Moton.. Glidden Co. . (•runite City Jntrrboro R T lot Rap Tr ct Inter Cement. Int Merc Mur Int Kv of C A lalttncl <’ Coal •loh no Mttnt 11 Jnlinn Mun pf K.inn«*v Co. pf Lettish Par C Itrhlsh Vai CI Lehi \ Con I pf Lons Hell A. MnrAndr JU F Mark Truck®, Monannto Ch. Nat Oiatillrra. N Dlatlllcra pf
Nntlonnl I.cad N \ < rntrul . N V Mtlpbldr. NYbhlphld pf Pnnltnnrile PR Pnnhnndlr pf. Penn CoulA C
Penned (J C) Penn I>lx Cent Penn Dixie pf Phlla K C A I Plttaton Co Rcvnlda Mrtul Kcynolda Spr. 8ltit rnnStHoop Thompson Co. TliumimonMiir Truax Truer .
I	Irn A t nlon
("itlt El Coal..
II	S Gyraum. Vniv Mat Tob Waitcorf h Co. Ward lliik A Ward B*k pr. Warren Bro® W arrltr cv pf U>Mon <111 pf West P !• 7pf
Unification or Higher Fare
The pressure on the City ot New York to get new revenues is constantly working to bring the city around to a higher fare on the rapid transit lines, or to attempt, once again, to put through a plan of unification. The city still clings to the idea that, if unification is put through, a higher fare will not be necessary. But the prospects for putting through a plan of unification, without some sllding-scalc fare provision in the indenture of any securities which might be issued to pay for the independently operated companies' properties, is ns remote now as it was two years ago. With business improving, and revenues slowly coming up, the rapid transit security holders hardly would go into a unification scheme which did not give as secure a position as they now hold, or one ev^n more secure,	'
If the city is to put through unification, it can issue its own securities in part payment for the properties, but it hardly would attempt to pay for the independent properties in full with city securities. Any securities, such as Board of Transit Control obligations, would have to ;have a sliding scale fare jjrovlifipn. to gaegt thfi
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.