Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 24, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15	-
Abreast of the Market
Market
Call money renewal....... Time money. 90 days......
Acceptances, 90 days.....
Commercial paper.........
Franca, cables
Sterling cables.........*	’
New York bank rate.........
Reserve System ratio.....
Coffee. Rip. ^December.....
Copper, delivered........
Com, December.......
Cotton, December,....’’’’ Hides, December.
I-cad, New York....
Oats, December. ...... 1 ’ ’ Rubber, No. i stand’d Dec. Silk, raw. October..
Silver. New York.......*
Sugar, raw, December.....
Tin. December............
V/poat. December
Woo! tops, December......
Zinc, Dost st. Douis.. . .
Diary
Monday	
1933	1932
	1*%
% ©•% %	
	
	
.0538	.0393%
4.«t%	3.32
2%	
65.5%	61.3%
5.43	6.40
75»	%	5%
45%	25%
9.28	6.10
.	8.30	3.25
4.00	3.10
35%	35%
7.30	3.39
1.52	3.50
37%	27%
1-20	1.03
46.30	22.70
80 Mi	47%
100.2	53.2
4.75	3.00^3.05
Advances of from 2 to 10 points In active stock market leaders; a rusk of buying which swept grain prices up almost the maximum permitted for one day’s fluctuations, and demonstrations of strength In other commodities constituted the markets’ response to President Roosevelt’s radio address to the Nation, in which lie reiterated bis Intention to put staple prices to higher levels, one wav or another.
In the stock market, prices boiled upward during the first hour and a half’s trading, and then the market turned calmer, easing from the highs. In the late dealings, it eased under profit-taking, but closed with good advances on the day. The most sensational perform ftc in the early upswing were the gold stocks. Homestake started at 325, up 25; U. S, Smelting opened on a block of 3,000 shares at 90. up 12; Dome Mines, 3,500 at 34 51, up 4^4. and Alaska Juneau, at 24 51, was up 4% on a 3,000 share block. Alcohol stocks soared, too, American Commercial Alcohol opening at 50 ti, up 6’.. Allied Chemical had a big Jump, opening at 126, up HHs. and liberal advances were scattered throughout the list. The alcohol stocks were ragged at the finish, National Distillers closing with a fractional loss on the day.
Trading was active, and the tape lagged two minutes behind actual floor transactions. Harvester, copper and oil shares were in the van of the rise. The market flattened out in the afternoon.
The President’s speech was the paramount news over the week-end. In the face of his declaration on commodity prices, and his announcement of the step toward a managed currency, such items as a sharp contraction in steel operations and one or two other rather discouraging reports of business were ignored.
Grains swirled upward in a boiling market. Wheat opened up around 3 cents a bushel and met Insistent buying which absorbed all the offering's. At the close, December wheat was at 86’4-8654 cents a bushel, up 4>4 to 4’4 cents a bushel on the day and about"I9 cents a bushel over last Tuesday's low. Corn rye and oats also advanced, the latter hitting the daily limit of 3 cents a bushel. Cotton was up < to 13 points at the close.
The bond market trend was uneven. Speculative bonds rose on the news, but high grade issues held in a narrow range of prices, generally under the recent best prices. Government bonds were lower, while foreign gold Issues ranged upward. The dollar was weak as was to be expected, falling against both sterling and gold currencies.
Iu Paris the list was firm in quiet trad-in&- Industrial and utility shares were higher in London at the opening of the new account period, while the remainder of the list was mixed.
as they got from American roads in pre-deprea-sion years.
Turn Sharp TPor Chemicals
Union. Carbide’s report for the third quarter demonstrated that the view widely held in Wall Street that the chemical companies would be among the least affected by NRA codes was sound. For the third quarter, Carbide’s net was equal to 51 cents a share on the 9,000,743 shames outstanding, against 29 cents a share in the previous quarter and 22 cents in the corresponding period of 1932.	1.
While the current quarter may not be as good for Carbide, due to the slackening in the steel industry and in other major lines, this will be offset in part by the fact that the period is a good one for the sale of Carbide’s anti-freeze mixture. Prices for anti-freeze were reduced about a month ago, which should help the company’s volume of business.
liquidating on the Rally
Some liquidation came into the market on the rally, from interests which had been eager to lighten up but had held off from doing so during periods of weakness, A fairly sizeable amount of New York Central was disposed of from one source and there was selling of U. S. Steel from the same direction. Some switching from Steel common into Chrysler took place recently when the two stocks were selling at the same price. Profit takers were active in the market near the close, selling out support stock purchased during Saturday’s acute weakness.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, n-nd are not duplicated.
Since
T	Oct. 1
Increased earnings......... 131
Decreased Warnings.......... 48
Unchanged dividends........	124
Resumed dividends............ 8
Decreased dividends ......... 2
Increased dividends.......... 7
Omitted dividends . ......... 1
Initial dividends ............1
High and Iz>w 1-rices
Additions Yesterday 16 5 3 1
Monday, on the New York Stock Exchange, two stocks (Atlas Powder and National Lead pfd. A) made new highs and one stock (Hudson. & Manhattan pfd ) made a new low. for the year 1933.
The President’s Speech
The President left no doubt in the mind of the country as to his intentions to raise the commodity price level. Once again he told the country*, without equivocation, that he was going to get the price of staples higher. ”If wc cannot do this one way. we will do It another,” the President insisted. "Do It, we will.” . This insistence on raising the commodity price level, and the President’s avowed intention of turning to a managed currency* and the commodity dollar, show that the hopes held m the financial community that the President was turning toward orthodox economic theories were ill-founded. Not since early July had the nation been given a full exposition of the President a economic theories. In the interim, rhe financial community felt it had reason to believe, particularly on the announcement of the government’s bond conversion program, that the Administration had swung away from its earlier conceptions of the course to pursue. The President’s speech banished those ideas, and showed he was determined to follow untrodden paths.
The President, in reiterating the governments intention to get commodities higher, is making another move designed to stir individuals to convert their* dollars either into things or evidences of wealth. It was that wave of desire to buy things and to speculate in the markets, coupled with improving business, which brought about the sharp upward swing in commodities, securities and extended the business rise between May and July.
In moving to have the R. F. C. buy and bcII gold in the world markets, the President is taking, as he points out, a step designed to put control of the price of the dollar in the foreign exchange markets in the hands of the government, so that events in other countries will not affect, as they have heretofore, the value ot the American currency. By buying gold in the domestic market, advocates of the commodity dollar insist the R. F. c. can manipulate the domestic price level.
Possibilities ot Steel Orders
The cut in the price ot steel rails, and the possibility that recognition ot Russia would mean purchases of as much as 2,500,000 tons of steel rails in this country brought a little new hope that the steel companies could look to the futuro with more confidence. There Isn’t any assurance that the cut in domestic price of rati to §37.75 a ton, one ot the major Items on the week end news calendar, will bring a flood of rail buying Into the market. The price fixed is not as low as that suggested by Joseph B. Eastman, railroad coordinator, and as long as there is a prospect that a furtbor price reduction might be made, aiiroads aren't likely to enter the rail market with big orders.
Carrier managements, on the other hand, haven’t been clamoring for the reduction in rail prices. They need rail, and they now can purchase it at almost 13% under the price prcvail-‘	1929. That saving Is attractive, and
should bring In some purchases, which will add to the unfilled tonnago on the four rail-makers books.
Orders from Soviet Russia aro a long way off. It recognition Is achieved, however, and 2,500,000 tons of business develop, steel companies would get from Russia as much business
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.