Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 13, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
hailed the
Diary	
1933	1937*
-Monday	
1%	
	1%%
-	ie%on%
	2%e%%
.0483	.0393%
4.16%	3.67%
2Vff%	3%
68.1%	60.9%
6.69	6.29
8	
46%	29%
9.37	5.08
13.10	3.61
4.20	3.00
29%	20%
6.35	2.68
*	2.19	1.21
36%	27%
1.37	0.72
,	42.20	*19.50
77%	50
84.00	49.50
4.3094.325	2.80
The American securities markets
first session of the London Economic Con-strength which stocks to new The hopeful
fcrence with a burst of sent many of the pivotal high ground for the upswing, tenor of the opening addresses to the delegates, emphasizing the necessity of action, and speedy action, served to Inspire the hope that the deeds of tbe delegates might come up to the words ot the leaders. The markets also had the background of generally favoring domestic news, including the week-end steel reviews, pointing to another small gain In the industry’s operating rate, and two good carloadings reports for the week ended June 11- Developments in Washington also engendered the hope that Congress would adjourn within the next day or two, with the Roosevelt program enacted almost in full.
The old-time market leaders were the really strong spots during the session. American Telephone surged ahead to a new high, for a gain of 8% points; American Can staged a swift run-up, advancing 3% points, and Westinghouse, Consolidated Gas, J. I. Case, U. S. Steel common and nth era were extremely strong* Railroad shares, which have done little in the last five sessions, firmed up, and staged fair advances,'with Delaware & Hudson the best performer. The utilities were the early favorites, and the oils were in demand throughout the session. Stocks like Ingersoll Rand, which ■would be benefited from the public works provisions in the National Recovery bill, ranged upward. Trading volume was higher, moving up to 5,810,000 shares.
All groups of bonds were pushed upward in nn active market New York traction Issues were around the best levels of the year, and there were sharp advances among second-grade railroad issues. Ronds of mvestment calibre were firm, and ’government obligations h^d steady. In the foreign list, United Kingdom issues, were pushed ahead, and German bonds scored advances.
Grains touched new season's highs at Chicago, and closed at the top, July wheat finishing up 1 to 1% cents a bushel. Corn was higher, and there was another bulge in rye. Early weakness in the dollar, with sterling touching a new high, at around $4.20. buoyed the grain market, and it did not sell off when sterling reacted later in the day. Cotton did not gain as impressively as grains, but managed to advance 9 to 16 points. K
" The foreign markets were mixed < In London the list gained ground, while in Faris changes were small, with the market irregular.
but'it has started earlier this year and already is helping Chesapeake A Ohio somewhat.
Average* at New Highs	-
AU three of the Dow-Jones stock averages made new highs as result ot yesterday's impressive advance in prices. The Industrials, eTesteg at-96.75, surpassed the previous top by mere th»n 2 points. The rail average, closing at 44.43, was only two-hundredths of a point above tbe June 5 high, with the utilities up more than 2 points above the previous top.
The performance ot the rails was encouraging. Since June-2-the rails have been in a narrow range, and in four out of the five sessions of’June 6 to 10, inclusive, the rail average had shown a net decline on the day. Yesterday's strength in the carrier stocks enable the average to more tha-n recover all tbe ground lost since June 5.
The Continental Shares Auction
The Continental Shares auction coincided with demonstrations of strength in one of the loading stocks involved, and the purchasers of had paper profits'on their holdings^ immediately. The block of Republic Steel common was purchased at- an average price of 517-98 a share, and the stock closed at 19%, a paper profit of around 5100,000 to the purchasers.
How They Stand	•
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, foUow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according..........-----	-■
are not duplicated.
to their latest
Decreased earnings ... Increased earnings ... Unchanged dividends . Decreased dividends .. Increased dividends .. Initial dividends ...
Omitted dividends ....
' High and
Monday, on the New York Stock
268 stocks made new highs, and no stock made a new low, for the year 1933.
report, and
Since	Additions
April X	Saturday
591	
204	2
648	36
58	
16	
6	
.	7	.«
r price®	
Exchange,
The Burlington and the Northerns
The improvement in the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy’s traffic, with loadings now running substantially ahead of the like period a year ago and gaining from week to week, is cheering for the holders of securities of the two Northerns, the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific. If the Burlington has a big second halfyear, and there are good prospects that it will show better than the normal upturn in traffic in the last six months, it is not inconceivable that directors, at their meeting in the closing month of the year, might decide to vote a dividend on the Burlington stock. -Of the 1,708,391 shares outstanding, 97.19% is owned by the two Northerns, each road holding roughly 830,000 shares.
The very poor showing of the Burlington in the first quarter of this year made the possibility of any dividend payments in 1933 seem very remote. Now that the trend of traffic has changed, and with it the earnings outlook, a dividend payment does not seem so Impossible. The Burlington is still in good financial shape, and even if it did not earn srufficient to cover a $3 payment on its stock, it might pay it to help out the two Northerns, which need the money. The Burlington paid $3 a share in 1932 on its stock.
Over the last four years, the Burlington has earned roughly 55% of its net operating income in the second half year. The disparity between the first six months and the second six months this year is likely to be wider than normal, due to the fact that the road's ’earnings power was so badly crippled in the first half by the extremely poor conditions existing in the agricultural territory it serves.
Corrective Reactions
While the general market level has been working higher, there have been sharp corrective reactions in individual groups of stocks, particularly in some of the stocks which were tbe leaders of the early stages of the upswing. Until yesterday. National Distillers and United States Industrial Alcohol, two of the leaders tn the early part ot the recovery in prices, had been dormant for some time. Both had sharp reactions from their highs.
Yesterday, the packing company shares had a fairly stiff reaction. Armour of Illinois preferred declined to around 10 points from the top price, and tbe A and the B stocks dipped sharply. The Wilson issues were off substantially from their best prices, too.
The reactions which have come into various groups have benefited the technical position ot the market. They have served to keep the market from being entirely a runaway affair.
a
The First Loadings Reports
The initial loadings reports from individual carriers, covering the week ended June 11, were good. Total loadings of the Atchison were ahead of the like week of 1932, although its own-line traffic was down a fraction of 1%. Chesapeake & Ohio turned in a brilliant loadings report, showing that cars loaded on the road's own lines in tbe week were 28.8% ahead of tbe like week of 1932.
Chesapeake & Ohio has been benefiting from an unusually large movement of coal througb Hampton Roads to New England. In the week ended June 3, shipments of cargo coal to New England from Hampton Roads ran to 192,404 tons, a striking gain over the previous week and comparing with 151,167 in the week of June 4, 1932. The bulk of the Great Lakes coal movement, the biggest factor in the road's earnings, comes usually in tbe late summer and early fall,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.