Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 25, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
last
half hour of
A brilliant rally In the trading yesterday sent stocks surging upward for gains which ran to from 4 to more than 6 points in the active leaders, with, the tape lagging seven minutes behind actual transactions on the floor. Second-day consideration of the President's radio address, and announcement that the Reconstruction Finance Corp, would start quoting a gold price today served as the impetus for the upward swing.
From the opening, the gold stocks were strong. Homestake was the leader of the group, up 26 points on the day, and McIntyre Porcupine, Alaska Juneau, U. S. Smelting and others in the group followed in its wake. All the metal stocks soared, Amerinan Smelting being one of the leaders of the group. Steels were firm, under the leadership of Steel comm on, and the rail shares showed real ability to forge Southern Railway, Great Norf-Hern and —	-	-	were in the van of the ad-
'of operation for the industry for that day. The first figure issued by the Institute appeared yesterday and showed operations for the industry were at 31.8% of theoretical capacity.
The Institute’s figures cover operations for the one day only. They are not, therefore, quite* comparable to other estimates of operations, which are based on the average rate for a week. The Institute itself has issued for some years figures on the monthly operating rate of the industry. *
Rails Advance Despite News	_
Immediate news on the railroads yesterday was not favorable, but the carrier stocks pushed ahead with the rest of the list in spite of it. Early carloadings reports from several roads indicated that traffic in the past week took rather a sharp tumble from the level of the previous week, and in a number of cases traffic of individual roads was under that of the like week of 1932. Union Pacific's report for September was poor, operating income dropping 23% under the like month of 1932. Hopes had been held that Norfolk & Western’s directors might vote an extra or raise the current rate, but they took a conservative course, continuing the $2 quarterly payment. Not income in the first nine months of the year was equal to $10.80 a share on the 1,406,403 common shares outstanding.
Deep in Confusion
One story is enough to illustrate the state of mind in the financial community. Two bank officials, meeting, started to discuss general affairs. Said one: "Have you any idea what is going to happen tomorrow or next week?"
"My dear man," replied the other, "I haven't even any idea whats going to happen yesterday.**'
ahead.
New York Central vance.
Overshadowing was the weakness exchange markets.	_
in the early afternoon, the dollar tumhiing- more than 10 cents against sterling. The •fra-nr. moved up in spite of the defeat of the French cabinet on a vote involving its budget-balancing program.
Irregularity poration bond worked higher, meat in stocks, trifle. Foreign	_	_
stered by the rise m foreign currencies against the dollar. Governments were weaker.
Wheat traveled over a range of almost 3 cents a bushel. At one time it was slightly above the previous close, but it eased late in the day and closed off 1 to 22,-s cents a bushel. Other coarse grains were mixed. The decline in corn was limited to fractions, and rye was up on the day. Cotton closed $1 a bale higher.
Foreign markets pursued divergent course. In London, the list was irregular. In Paris, rentes weakened, but stocks were strong.
Farmer Troubles in Argentina.
Farm belt agitation for higher prices for grains in the United States is being duplicated in the .Argentina, where wheat and flaxseed raisers are threatening not to harvest their crop unless the government sets minimum prices. The farmers are demanding exactly what has been given *'	....	.
subsidies to levels. The had similar ally yielded vances to tide them over the crop season, current agitation takes the more extreme form of a« demand for minimum prices. It is exactly the same thing some American farmer leaders have been urging on the government.
Southern Roads Entering Good Season
While roads in other sections of the country are approaching the very lean months of the year, when gross revenues normally slump substantially from the high levels of the early fall, the Southern carriers are entering the period of the year when they can rely on the citrus crop movement to offset losses in traffic, due to declines in general business at the fag-end of the year. In the group handling the citrus movement northward are the Atlantic Coast Line, Southern Railway and the Seaboard. Some buying has come into Southern at current levels, in spite of the fact that the road’s gross revenues in the second week of October fell under the total for the corresponding week of 1932, on the theory that this year’s citrus traffic will help to bolster gross in late November and December.
In September, 1932, Southern’s gross totaled $6,385,103. It advanced in October to $6,712,280, and then slid back in November to $5,887,359. In December, however, gross revenues advanced again, reaching $6,046,176, or not much below the September figure. Estimates indicate that Southern will just about cover its charges this year. The outlook for 1934 is no more certain than It is for any other company, but higher cotton prices, one of the aims of the Administration, would mean much to the Southern.
Copper Price Firming
Prices for copper, in the domestic market, were firmer yesterday at 7%-8 cents a pound, and buying continued in moderate volume. The recent drop from 9 to 7^ cents a pound, a decline of about 16%, was one of the most rapid which has taken place in the American market in recent copper history. A more cheerful attitude on the outlook now prevails, and for several days the price of the metal has held firm, above the low point. Given fair conditions in other markets, an upswing in the price of the metal does not seem improbable.
Steel Institute Falls in Line
The American Iron and Steel Institute has fallen in line with the idea of giving greater publicity to corporate affairs. Under the new system the financial community will be informed every Monday of the actual average rate
the fluctuations in stocks in the dollar in the foreign Sterling and francs soared,
prevailed in the domestic cor-market. Speculative issues in sympathy with the betterwhile high-grade bonds eased a bonds scored sharp gams, bol-
them in this country—governmpnf raise prices above world commodity Argentine government, in January, trouble with corn farmers, and fin-to their demands, by making ad’	"	‘	The
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies com-pared^with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with ' the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest are not duplicated.
report, and
Since Oct. 1 ,	148
50 .	130
8
2
8
1
1 Prices
Tuesday, on the New York Stock one stock (Atlas Powder) made a and two stocks (U. S. Distributing Rock new) made new lows, for the
Increased earnings........
Decreased earnings .......
Unchanged dividends .......
Resumed dividends ........
Decreased dividends.......
Increased dividends .....
Omitted dividends ........
Initial dividends ........
High and Low
Additions Yesterday 17 2 6
1
Exchange, new high and White year 1933.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.