Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 1, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Market Diary
Can raoaey renewal....... Time moaey, 00 <layi......‘ Acceptances, -00 days...... ConsnereUl pepex......... Franca, cables............ Btertos cables............ New.Yeric bank rate...... Reserve System ratio......
1533
1% 1U©44 5. , 4s®44«.
.	.0528
4.4S 244% es.4»
Monday
1032
2%
34® 44% 2© 14% .0391%
3.31%
■
,	58.1%
Coffee, Rio. September.^.. Copper, delivered........i.
Corn, September.,......... Cotton, October............ Hides,. September..........
Lead, New' Torts...........
Dale, ‘ September..........
Rubber, Na I sland’d Sept. . Silk. raw. October?.....,:, saver.-■ Hew York..'....... Sugar, raw, September.... Tin, September............ Wheat. September.........
‘ Wool -tope, '■■September.-.
Zinc, East St. Louis......
5.66
9 4944 10.12 12.50
4.50
3031
6.95 *1.78 ' 35%
1.39
43.85 92%
04.80
5.00
6.50
5%
3134 .6.01
4.05
2.95
1734
3.27
1.35 Ya?;'
0.99 21.00 51 ■ 46.50
2.60
U’ne process ot readjusting security and commodity prices to the more somber mood of the financial' community made rapid headway in the opening session of the new week. Stocks declined precipitately, losses in some issues like J. X Case and-Allied Chemical approximating ten points at the lows. Declines of five points or more •were sprinkled freely through the list, ana the sentire market was heavy most of the session. A turgid rally in the last half hour canceled some’of the day’s losses. Trading for the first five-hour session since July 22 ran to 3,080,000 shares. Bonds, grains and cotton slumped, as speculators withdrew from the market and buyers stood aside, adopting a waiting attitude.
Reports from Washington that inflation talk would be soft-pedaled for the time being, at least, and troubles being met in preparation of industrial codes under NBA were the prime influences which moved the speculative element to lighten commitments. Rapid swings in the dollar in the foreign exchange markets were unsettling, too. Trade indices told of the tapering of activity in major lines, such as the steel industry and the motor business. With attention centered on what the Administration’s wage increasing policies. would mean to corporate profits over the next two months, reports on second quarter earnings, revealing improvement on many fronts, did not rouse speculative enthusiasm. -
Specualative bonds, which have had the widest advances, were the largest sufferers in a heavy bond, market. Second grade railroad bonds sought lower levels, and there were wide recessions in some of the recently active industrial issues. High-grade issues held rather .better than other sections of the domestic corporation list. A rally in Argentine bonds was a feature-of the foreign list. Governments were depressed.
In the face of word from the grain belt detailing the enormous damage being done both in this country and Canada by hot weather, grains broke badly. All deliveries of wheat, except the cash grain, closed with the limit of loss permitted under the Board of Trade restrictions, 5 cents a bushel. Oats, rye, corn and barley all dropped the full amount fallowed. Cotton tumbled $2.50 a bale and closed only a point or two above the lows.
Metal shares were lower in London, the rest of the list holding to a narrow price range., In Paris, prices on the Bourse were mixed in a quiet market.	"	"
N. P. Emerges from lied link Figures
After eight consecutive months of net losses after charges, the Northern Pacific emerged from red ink figures in June. The month’s results have not made their appearance yet, but authoritative estimates put net income for June ataround $100,000. Preliminary figures indicate:that'the road covered its charges, with a small margin, in July, too. Ordinarily, August, September and October are good months for the N. P., but the short wheat crop in the Northwest makes hazardous any guesses as to what the results for the three months will be this year,
It is too early to figure what directors of the Northwest Improvement Co., Northern Pacific's wholly owned investment subsidiary, will do on payments to the parent company this year. Last year, Northwest Improvement took action which was tantamount to paying the Northern Pacific an extra of about $5,000,000, in addition to the regular payment of $052,000. If the Northern Pacific, needs money at the end of this year, Northwest Improvement still is in posi-
tion to pay the road another sizable extra. Copper Buying Quiets Down Copper buyers in this country are not active at the moment, adopting a waiting attitude for the time being. The price of copper abroad is lower in terms of U. S. currency, but is holding steady on a sterling basis. There is enough uncertainty in this country to make for a cau-tioiis policy. Copper buying, until recently, was good, even as prices worked up above the 9-. cent. level. Domestic price of coppfer still is holding at 9 cents, and as yet there are no indications of a downward revision in prices. Copper producers are* working on their code, under NIKA. The latest word is that the code will not include any fixed price for the Taw metal.	. :
‘ Policy of Government Financing
Soft pedalling inflation talk Js a logical accompaniment to the government’s’effort to dispose of $50,000,000 In eight-year bonds, bearing a 3%% coupon. After all, if inflation talk was rife now, buying long-term government bonds, with a low coupon rate, wouldn’t be attractive to investors. All the uncertainty over what the administration had in mind for the value of the dollar made'for buying of commodities, equities or speculative bonds, and certainly did not help the government bond market. With a big financing operation ahead, which will have an Important bearing on future government financing operations, the administration naturally doesn’t want to stir up trouble for itself by talk which leads to nervousness over the value of American currency.	'
The Big Test for NBA	’
The big test for the Administration’s program for industrial recovery is taking , place now, and that alone is sufficient to account for the uncertainty of the securities markets. For much of the third quarter-of the current year increased wages are likely to mean lower , corporate profits. An accurate Idea of whether the. enlarged public buying power is going into purchase of goods, and increasing the volume of general business, really won’t be available .until the fall. The obvious uncertainty over this crucial matter should make for some lessening of speculation and uncertainty in the securities markets. -.	.	'
Gleaning From London
Informed quarters in Wall Street were inclined to give credence to reports in the London "Financial News” that the purchaser of the big block of Booth’s Distilleries shares, sold at. auction recently In London, was Thomas Bragg. The shares, 246,000 ordinary and 313,000 preferred ordinary, were part of the estate of the late Solly Joel. Mr. Bragg has been in England for some time.
Loadings Tapering Off
Two out of three of the indvidual carrier loadings reports covering the July 29 week revealed a tapering in the movement of traffic. Shipments over the Atchison and the Pere Marquette were under those of the previous week. Chesapeake & Ohio showed another improvement, but its weekly reports aren’t representative of the trend, due to the unusually heavy movement of bituminous coal from the West Virginia fields.
The normal course of traffic is upward from early August until late September with only minor interruptions. ’/The.trend has deviated so far from normal this year that in some informed railroad quarters it is considered possible that the strong upward curve might bo delayed a little this year. In 1932, the major upturn carried traffic to around 650,000 cars in the week ended October 14 from just under 500,000 cars in the August 5 week. The gain in 1932 was much larger than seasonal. J61 1930, a more normal year, the traffic level in mid-September was about 10% above that of early August.
’	How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with thoso, for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on ja monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are Dot duplicated.	'
.	Since Additions
July 1 yesterday Increased earnings ......... 212	11
Decreased earnings ■.......	162	15
Unchanged dividends ........ 185	6
Decreased dividends .....;	6	' ..
Increased dividends	9	..
Deferred dividends ......... 1	..
High and Low Prices
Monday, on the New York Stock Exchange, three stocks made new highs and one stock made a new low, for the year 1933.
. New Highs
Am Rad&B pf | GenlUty pfirw | N T Ch & St!
New Low
Deere * Co	1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.