Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 19, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Market
CoD money renewal..........
Time money, 90 days........
. Acceptances, 90 days.......
■ -Commercial paper.........
Francs, cables ........-	• -_s
Stcrttu* cables............
New Toxic	rate......
Reaam System ratio.........
Coffee, Rio, September. ._«• Copper, delivered..........
Cora, September........... Cotton, October............
Rides. September..........
Lead. New ‘York..'...._____
Oats. September........... Rubber, No. x stand’d Sept, suit. raw. October.........
Silver. Nsw York...........
Sugar, raw, September.... Wheat, -September..........
Wool tops. September..... Zlac. East st. Louis.......
Diary
'STteKf
1933	1932
	2*
■	
	
	2%
.0532	.0392%
4.49	3.47%
2%«G	2%%
68.1%	59.9*6
5.47	•	7.12
9	
49U	31%
9.30	7.44
32.25	5.75
4.50	3.30
35%	30%
7.15	3.35
1.75	3.43
369k	23%
3.36	3.09
84 %	50%
93 40	51.50
4.95	2.75
ment in business and prices, and the second is the British Empire trade agreements, reached almost a year ago, enlarging the company's markets. The company's net In the second quarter was -$1,943,046, equal to 10 cents a share on the -common stock, < With prices holding, and a general betterment in business In Canada, the United States and abroad, prospects are for an enhancement of earning power.
How They Stand *
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the -corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a	_	_	-
Included according to their are not duplicated.
The recovery in the grain markets and in stocks which took place Thursday proved only temporary, for in the final session of the week new selling came into the grain markets, carrying wheat back to the minimum price permitted under trading restrictions, and stocks slipped, losing some of the ground they had gained in the previous session. Early in the session, the list was active and strong, but didn't develop enough strength to carry important stocks through the ceiling immediately overhead. It held firm until the last hour, and then eased with the grain market. The decline wasn’t wide, with losses in most cases limited to below three points.
un the overnight calendar, the principal Items were the code adopted for the oil industry and the President’s insistence that progress must be made on the steel and coal Codes to conform with the NIRA program. The oil Industry program, laid down by the Administration, was a compromise measure, whicn met with fairly general approbation from the industry. Sentiment in the financial community on codes in general, however, is showing that Wall Street realizes, more and more, that codes mean, for the immediate future, at least, a reduction in corporate profits. A few corporate reports on the second quarter, particularly that of International Nickel, served to hiring buying into individual stocks.
The bond market had an easier tone. Highgrade issues and government bonds were steady, and some of the blue ribbon corporation issues worked a little higher. In the second-grade group, prices were lower, speculative rails eqsing off. A further rally in Argentine Government issues, and marked strength in, gold currency bonds, were the features of the foreign group.
Early in the session, wheat ruled above the preceding close, but when it began to ease, discouraged longs threw their holdings on the market and the price faded swiftly. The close found December off 5 cents* a bushel. Coarse grains did better than wheat In Chicago, corn closing virtually unchanged on the day. In Winnipeg, wheat went back to within a shade of the pegged minimum. Cotton lost 6 to 13 points, rallying from the day’s lows. •
Foreign exchanges were strong against the dollar early in the day, but in the afternoon the tide turned, and the dollar rallied. Fluctuations in the m.vket were wide.
Brices were better on the Paris Bourse. The whole list was firm in London, mining shares being the strongest group.
“Defiance” of air. Eastman
Yesterday’s session of the general committee of the Eastern railroads was construed as a “defiance" of Joseph B. Eastman, railroad coordinator, but placing such a construction on the session must be taken with a grain of salt. Railroad presidents hardly are going to' defy Mr. Eastman, at this juncture, when he is standing by them on several important matters, even though he isn’t with them on others. Mr. Eastman is empowered, under the Emergency Transportation Act, to aid the railroads in working out their own problems, and the machinery for doing this is created under the Act.
It was quite natural that Mr. Eastman should wish to eliminate committees already chosen whose aims overlapped with groups the Emergency Transportation Act envisaged. Rail executives are quite cognizant of Mr. Eastman’s powers, and they are disposed to work with him, not against him, so far.
Lead Stocks Working Downward
While production of lead in July fell to 23,198 tons, against 30.727 tons in June, shipments worked up to 45,200 tons, compared with 34,825 tons in the previous month. This excess cf shipments over production was reflected in a decline in stocks on hand to 170.981 short tons, off roughly 22,000 tons from the end of June and about 10,000 tons lower than a year previous. The drop in lead stocks bolsters the technical position of the industry, and is gradually lifting the weight which for some time held down lead prices.
Gradual improvement in the industry is attracting some interest to St. Joseph Lead. The company’s business showed some improvement in the first half of this year, due to the pick-up in demand for lead for paint and storage battery manufacture, the two big users of lead. The betterment wasn’t enough to get the company out of "red ink” however, and a loss for the six months ran to $1,303,212. Much of the loss was incurred in the first quarter. In spite of the fact that the loss in addition to a heavy one fur 1932, the company, on June 30 had current assets, including cash and marketable securities of $3,191,847, totaling $11,323,723, with current liabilities of $917,053. There are $8,000,000 in convertible 5J/£ bonds ahead of the 1,950,446 shares of capLtal stock.
Oil Code and Crude Prices
While the code presented so abruptly to the oil industry leaders represented a compromise not entirely satisfactory to either faction In the industry, it served to bring about a/ pretty firm market for oil stocks. Strength in the oils was based, largely, on the outlook for prices.
If the code is adopted, the President's views on prices will prevail over the next ninety-day test period. After that, the formula included in the code will be the determining factor. In some quarters of the oil Industry, a price in the neighborhood of $1 a barrel for mid-Continent crude is considered In sight during the next three months, against the current price of 54 cents.
The code is drawn along the lines of much the legislation put through at the past session of Congress. It lodges in tbe President's hands dictatorial powers over the industry. Again and again. In the section covering prices, production and planning for tbe future, the President is given the final say-so.
Comeback by International Nickel
Nickel’s recovery in earning power In tho second quarter was one of the best shown by any company which has turned In a report so far, and brought new buying in tho stock. Two bjg factors are working In favor of the company. The first is the general world improve-
Increased earnings .. Decreased earnings , Unchanged dividends Decreased dividends Increased dividends Deferred dividends , Omitted dividends .
monthly basis are latest report, and	
Since	Additions
July 1	yesterday
344	K)
239	2
324	17
6	
28	2
1
1
2
High and Low Prices
Friday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 11 stocks made new highs and no stock made a new low, for the year 1933.
New Highs
Atlas Tuck..	1	Gabriel Co.	A	t	Schenley Diet.
Chrysler ...	I	HelmB GW	pf	Spear A Co pf
Cobrate Pa pf	I	Nut Biscuit	pf	U S Smeltin*.
Corn Products	|	Pierce Arr	pf	I
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.