Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 5, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Diary	
Wednesday	
1933	1932
% %	2°v
? 7* 'v	1*0
<5 U	
	1*4^%%
.0604 U	.0392 Mi
4 76%	3.45f«
2%%	2*4%
66.1%	00.8%
3 94	6.53
9	«%
47H	20%*
9.87	6.99
10.30	6 1ft
4 50	3 25
38 %	16>4
8.3ft	3.50
l.flO	1 58
39%	27%
1 47	1 06
47.8ft	23 45
90%	A2
105 0	56 0
4.75	3.10 Z’ 3 15
have experimented with them, like the Louisville & Nashville, have found they do attract passengers to the rails in substantial number. Iu the second place, the abundant special rates offered by railroads to stimulate passenger business during recent months have put rates down pretty close to the level contemplated.
In June, average passenger mile revenue was down to 2.73 in the East, 2.05 in the South and 2.05 in the West. These averages include the surcharge, which amounts to around one-third of a cent a mile on sleeping and parlor car travel, which account for well over half total passenger traffic. The June figures Bhow that, with the exception of the Bast, the proposed basic fare reductions don’t constitute any very serious threat to existing revenues’, even if the lower basic fare didn't bring new travellers to
. Market
Call money renewal......
Time monrj. 9u ua»« .... Acceptance*, 90 days....
Commercial paper........
Francs. cable>..........
Sterling cables.........
New York bank rate...... Reserve System ratio......
Coffee. Rio. December..... Copper, delivered...  .
Corn. December. ......... Cotton, December......... Hides. December.. ......., Dead, New York......
Oats. December..........
Rubber. No. 1 stand’d Dec. Silk. raw. Octoher......
Silver, Nr*- York..	.
Sugar, raw, December .... Tin, December...........
Wheat December .........
Wool tops. December.....
Zinc, East St. Douls....
Buoyed by a number of favoring items on the course of business, stocks reversed their trend Wednesday and in an active market scored brilliant gains over the previous close. All groups shared in the advance, but the industrial stocks, as a group, did the best. National Distillers, U. S. Smelting Ar Refining, Allied Chemical, Celanese and Johns Manville were the most brilliant performers m the industrial group, with advances reaching up to 7U points. In the rails, Union Pacific, Central and Illinois Central were in the van, while Telephone. Water Works and Western Union were the quick movers among the utilities.
For the full session, ‘trading volume ranged « up to 2,100,000 shares, more than double the previous day’s total. The list was strong from the start, overnight advances amounting to more than 1 point.
The market’s performance on Tuesday, from a technical standpoint, was calculated to inspire hope in some quarters that for the time being the list was “sold out ’’ The overnight news included reports of a conference between the President and Secretary Woodin in regard to the Administration’s program for further credit expansion. calculated to stir some interest in the list. In addition, several favorable business items made their appearance during the day. Woolworth and W. T. Grant sales for September showed good gains over the corresponding month of 1932. Electric power output, for the latest week, recorded a wider percentage advance over the similar 1932 week than in the September 23 period. Repeal forces won a sweeping victory in Virginia. Affiliated companies of the American Telephone system reported substantial gains in telephones.	,
While the price of gold was lower, and the dollar firmed in the foreign exchange markets, the moves didn’t dampen those constiyjctively inclined.
The domestic corporation bond list worked 1 a shade higher Industrial bonds were the best I performers, and high-grade issues rallied somewhat. The market was moderately active m the morning, but slowed up in the afternoon. Governments were steady and foreign bonds strong.
Commodities were improved. The early strength in stocks helped wheat, and the major cereal held much of its gains, closing up ll£ to	cents a bushel. Corn closed off, while
other grains were a shade higher. The advance : in cotton was limited to from 9 to 12 points ,
Foreign maikots followed a divergent course In London, the list was higher The maiket was heavy in Paris.
Ralls Meeting New Buying	1
While the railroad stocks didn’t perform as well as the industrials in the sharp run-up early yesterday, railroad shares have been meeting some new long-range buying in the last few sessions. One of the stocks that has been favored by conservative rail houses is Great Northern, and some switching into this stock from other carrier shares has been going on. Great Northern may not quite cover its fixed charges this year, but the comeback m the road s earning power m the last lew months has been notable. With ore traffic heavy, August gross moved up to ST,155.080, practically identical with the 1931 gross figuie. For the first eight months, gross was better than 11 ahead of the 1932 period.
Another road which met buying m the recent sell-off Is Union Pacific. The road’s income this year should cover the $6 dividend rate by a handy margin.
the rails.
Helping Thin Accounts
The Stock Exchange’s ruling on the acceptability of stocks selling under $5 a share In margin accounts was a help to those who make a specialty of trading in the low-priced shares. While only the low priced stocks acceptable as collateral for loans for banks can be carried in margin accounts, that is a fair list. In many cases, stocks which were on the verge of falling into the under $5 group on the set-back had been excluded from margin accounts by conservative houses, and the change permitted by the Stock Exchange will bolster these accounts substantially.
Failures Drop Sharply	'
Fears that the operations of the NRA would have a serious effect on small business, and might bring numerous failures, were not borne out by the figures on business failures in September. The total, both in number and in losses involved, was the smallest in many years. A higher level of consumer buying, during September, was indicated in the early reports from chain stores, and this consumer buying has been the factor which has helped small businesses as well as the large ones to meet the NRA costs. Woolworth’s sales, and those of W. T. Grant, showed a good advance over September. 1932, but it should be remembered that there were five Saturdays in the month just closed, as compared with four in September, 1932.
Market Back Near Range Highs
Yesterday’s abrupt rally in stocks swept the Dow-Jones industrial and utility averages up to the highest point since September 23. While the rails shared in the upswing, the average was back only to a little above the September 26 close. In one trading session, the market recovered all the ground lost in eight trading sessions.
At the finish, the list was approaching territory where resistance has been encountered in previous phases of advance. The industrial average, nt the close, was within about 5 points of the level at which heavy selling has been met on recovery moves which have taken place since the mid-July break.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and arc not duplicated.
Since Oct 1 Incre*is“d earnings........... 8
Decreased earnings.......... C»
Unchanged dividends......... 22
Resumed dividends ........... 2
High and Low Prices
Wednesday, on the New York
Additions yesterday
S
1
Stock Ex-
change, seven stocks made new highs and no stock made a new low, for the year 1933.
New jEHghs
Am llnd.VS pf . Checker Cab, . Endicott .1 pt Am Smell pf | Ch SF M&Om I	bound
I’urh X Tllfrt
I
Technical Students ‘‘Jumping the Gun”
The growth in the number of students following charts of the market’s position has been enormous over the past year or two, and their buying, on given signals from the charts, is becoming more and more of a market influence. Sonic of these chart students, realizing that on a buying wave, from a group puts the market lip on th*' buyers, arc attempting to “jump the gun" on the charts. In other words.' wncn a market formation begins to look as if a j reversal of the trend i*. imminent, although the1 charts have given no actual signal, buying be-i gins to come into the market from the chart! students who are trying to get in before the advance. If they are successful and call the I turn on the market, the buying which ronies into! the market on a definite signal from the charts' affords them a fair profit.	•
Texas Oil Decision Helpful
The decision of a Texas federal judge, upholding the light of the Secretary of the Interior’s, agents to require reports on oil received, refined and shipped is a distinct victory for the government In its campaign to force compliance with provisions of the oil code under the NRA The ruling is the second important court victory for the government in the last few weeks, -the first having been a decision won in the District of Columbia Supreme Court. In strengthening the rights of the Secretary of the Interior to supervise the industry, as provided under the NRA code, the courts have assisted the industry ab well as the government.
The outlook for the oil industry is improving steadily. In addition to the two decision4', Secretary Ickes’ order reducing allowable output for October to 2.337,500 bands dally was constructive. The order not only cut production, but it required also that any oil withdrawn from storage be included in allowable figures, and that the excess of September production over the October allowable be charged out of October production.
Tne Toxas fields have been the troublesome spots in the industry, continually exceeding allowables It was in the production permitted for these fields that Secretary Ickes made the heaviest induction, putting output down to 965.000 barrels dall\. Mr. Ickes’ move to cut production coincides with the passing of the peak of the oil consuming season.
Passenger Faren Already Down
Wears that the prospective reduction in rail passenger fares will bring n r,.znble contraction in rail rnvenuen won't stand up under a little investigation. In the first place, railroads which
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.