Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 24, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Market
Call money renewal.. Time money, 90 .days. Acceptances. 90 days. Commercial paper.... Francs, cables.......
Sterling cables......
New York, bank rata. Reserve System ratio.
Coffee, Rio. July.......... Copper, delivered..........
Com. July. .1.......
Cotton. July...........
Hides, September...........
Lead, New York.............
Oats. July.................
Rubber, No. 1 stand’d July Silk, raw, July.............
Silver. New York...........
SURar. raw. July...........
Tin. July..................
Wheat. July..............
Wool tops. July.......   .,
Zinc, Rast st. Louts.......
Diary	
Tuesday	
1933	1932
1%	
1%	1*4%
-	
	2fe©3%
.0456*4	.0394%
3.91%	3.88%
3%	3%
67.1%	64.4%
5.30	6.88
7	su
45%	32 %
8.64	5.66
Il 44	4.61
3.63	3.00
25%	22%
4.94	2.90
1.48	1.17
33%	27%
1.39	0 62
33.00	20.00
70%	59%
75.50	53 50
3.75 6(3.80	2.35
and com-with
The forward march of securities modifies prices was resumed yesterday, uniformly favorable news on the domestic bust- . ness situation and cheering developments abroad serving to touch off the further upswing. The prospect that the bank statements, appearing Thursday night, would show that the Federal Reserve had embarked on a campaign of purchasing government securities, to expand credit, was also a compelling factor in reviving 'interest in stocks.
Specialties were spectacular performers In the stock market. National Distillers, among the '‘repeal” stocks, soared in an active market, moving up 7% points. Owens Illinois Glass, U. S. Industrial Alcohol and numerous others in the specialty class bounded forward. Impressive gains were scored by industrial, railroad and utility leaders, including Allied Chemical, Steel common, du Font, Union Pacific, 'Atchison and Telephone. Advances in the leaders reached 3 points or more. Trading volume picked up on the advance.
Strength in commodities abroad, before the opening of the exchanges here, revived speculative enthusiasm. Weakness in wheat, in recent sessions, has served to hold stocks back. A good April report turned in by Union Pacific; regular dividend declarations by Texas Corp, and International Business Machines, and reports from a number of companies, attesting to •the expansion in their businesses, served to whet the speculative appetite- The more hopeful outlook at Geneva, following the speech of Norman Davis, was the cheering news from abroad. Word from Washington that currency management would be undertaken with an eye to revising the domestic price level also stimulated stock market interest.
A general forward movement occurred in the bond market, with all groups of domestic corporation issues sharing in the advance. Government bonds ranged higher. Low-priced rails were as firm as any other group. Foreign bonds were steady to firm, with some French bonds unusually strong.
Grains closed not far from the day’s high. Wheat finished up 1% to 2’-s cents a bushel, and com moved up around 1 cent a bushel. Cotton gained more than $1.50 a bale, and other commodities ranged upward.
K. F. C. Takes a New Tack
The Reconstruction Finance Corp.’s request for the appointment of a trustee or trustees to investigate the transaction by which the Van Sweringen brothers of Cleveland, tnrough holding companies they dominated, acquired terminal properties in Kansas City and St. Joseph which later were optioned to the Missouri Pacific is a somewhat extraordinary move. It is the first investigation of its kind the Reconstruction Finance Corp, has undertaken, and if the court allows the request, it should be productive of much interesting data. ’
The Reconstruction Finance Corp.’s move is extraordinary because it must have gone into the intimate connection between the Missouri Pacific, the Alleghany Corp., and Terminal Shares, Inc., before it approved loans to the railroad which enabled it to stay out of receivership for a full year. Both the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Reconstruction Finance Corp, approved the Missouri Pacific loans, the first of which was made February 10, 1932, and presumably they would not have done so had they not been fully aware of all matters concerning the road add the Alleghany Corp , the holding which controls it.
Kull Loan Aided Holding Company
Both the Reconstruction Finance Corp, and the Interstate Commerce Commission must have known that by keeping the Missouri Pacific out of receivership they were enabling it to continue payments on the option the road had to buy, the terminal properties held by Terminal Shares, Inc., which in turn is wholly owned by Alleghany Corp. Payments made by the Missouri Pacific made it posible for Terminal Shares to continue paying interest on its notes, pledged under the Alleghany Corp, collateral trust bonds. Continuance of these payments by Terminal Shares enabled Alleghany to meet interest on its collateral trust 5s of 1950. Actually, the Reconstruction Finance Corp, loans to the Missouri Pacific, keeping it out of receivership, indirectly supported the holding company. Both the Reconstruction Finance Corp, and the Interstate Commerce Commission must have before agreeing to the loans.
The charges made in regard tracts made by the Geneva Corp, chase of the terminal properties charges, and deserve full investigation. As far as the market values of the properties are concerned, however, it must be remembered that strategically located terminal properties, particularly such as the Kansas City area the Alleghany acquired through Geneva Corp., which the Missouri Pacific later was given an option to buy, came high in boom times.	......
when return
known
that the loadings reports of New York Central and Pennsylvania, for the latest week, should give a better line on traffic than the individual reports already turned in.
Two factors have tended to throw? out ot line estimates of the country’s total traffic, based on early individual reports. Both ore and soft coal traffic have turned up. and none of the early individual loadings reports fully reflect these upturns.
Morgan Bank Deposits
The figure of $340,000,000 given by J. F. Morgan as the deposit liabilities of the banking house at Xhe end of 1932 puts the private banking firm in the group of the 10 largest banks in New York in point of deposits. On the basis of the year-end deposits of other banking institutions, the firm would have ranked tenth. Deposits of the Morgan firm, as stated by Mr. Morgan, were just’ under the total reported by "the Bank of Manhattan Co.
Better April for Union Pacific
April was the first month of 1933 in Which Union Pacific showed larger net operating income than in the like month of 1932. In the first three months the road’s monthly statements	a poor comparison with the similar
months of 1932. The stock responded to the April report by running up to a new high for the year.
Tide Water Associated
The report that negotiations were in progress for consolidation of Continental Oil Co. and Tide Water Associated Oil Co. was denied by both sides. In October, 1931, negotiations between Sinclair (now Consolidated Oil Corp.) and Tide Water Associated failed, due to difier-ences as to equitable terms, but such a merger is still a possibility.
. Stocks at New 1988 Highs
Yesterday’s broad recovery in stocks carried the Dow-Jones railroad and industrial averages to new high ground for 1933. The rail average closed at 39.23, only 0.4 from tbe high of last September, when the top of the fall recovery was reached. For full confirmation of the break through of the industrial average above the September high, the rail average;must close at 40.28, or 1.01 above the September top. according to conservative students of the Dow theory.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies, compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividendtCieclaratlons compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest are not duplicated
report, and
Since April 1 530 171 418 39
5
6 Prices
Tuesday on the New York Stock 126 stocks made new highs and made a new low,
Decreased earnings.......
Increased earnings
Unchanged dividends ......
Decreased dividends .....
Increased dividends...... .
Initial dividends....v...
High and Low
Airway ill Ap Allied Chem’l Anial Leath pl Ani Lum Ale American Ire. Amcr’n lee pf AmHcliAMet. Allan 7 k. . . Itamsdnli . . ]l«»th htrvl 1>C tliux* Knnx .. Holm Alumin, floftton 9t Jlu. Bklvn Man Tr Canada t>ry.. Olaneer Corp Chi * E III pf C'hr>Mlrr . .. C'neo-Cnla A.
Col Fuel & Ir < <»1 I'uelXI pf Colnm rict <•* Conn Film pf (’nntHakina A font Buk R Cont Rale’s pf Cudahy Fuck. Pome Mines _ l»n font <lr v Kit Ingot' >«*hll Kilins *»<♦!» bpt l'nlrh’lc" >1 pf Federal .Motor
IVi!hrrwiri4» I rdrnited Ir S Frrrp’t Irvu* Freest T r> pf GcnAI ww pf <«en Ant Tran Gen’l Bmnxr. fien Motor* pf <«n RcaltjA:! t
for the year 1933. New Highs Grn Realty pf Glldtlrn Co.. (•Ihhlrn pr pf Gmxlrlcti pf.
Grnhnml’iUBe, Grunhy Consul <»t Nor Orr ct SlarknKaik M llitmllt W at l»f
II	iiilntin Illinois Cent’!
III	< ent pf A Indian Rctin’c lndust ltn'on. Ingersoll Rnn<l Int Hardest pf lnternu‘1 Sltor Island C Coal •Innes A I. pf. Kansu* Cltv S Knn City b pf Loner Hell A. Mrtiruw Hill. MnnliRy 7%gt Miinlb 5% nig Mny l>rpt bin Metro Hold pf Not C'nsli Res
P» Nxislt Motor . Nash C X S I. Not Distillers. Not Itlstlll rts Nut Distill pf Nat Mipply. . Nut bupplx pf Nrlsnrr lir<»»» N Y Ch & Stl. N’Y..C&btI. pf.
NV..N*n*H Pf. Parmele** Tra Prorin A East New Low
that
to the for the are serious
con-pur-
Their value can only be determined railroad traffic and real estate values to more nornftU levels.
Further Drop in Gold Demand
A further easing In the tension abroad is reflected in the rapid drop in premiums on gold in the London market. At the end of last week, the premium was at 10 pence a fine ounce, but it has fallen to 2} pence. Only three weeks ago, when European nervousness over the outlook was	’	.........
premium rose to the level of ISVs pence an ounce.
The Car Loadings Outlook
Early loadings reports from individual ern carriers indicate that traffic tapered little in the week ended May 20 from the previous week, but still is running above the total for the corresponding week of 1932. The western roads, while still giving a fair line in general traffic, are not certain indicators of the trend in other sections.
Western roads were tbe first to reflect the real pick-up in traffic, as movement of commodities got under way in volume. In tbe week ended May 13, tbe Eastern roads made relatively better showings than the western carriers, so
at its height, extra-ordinarily
the high
west-off a
Additions yesterday 3 5 4 19
Exchange ono stock
Marti’tte ? on .
Steel pf.
l’.»re i I'irrrr l*ltta »_____ -
tUctft I.nit pf t*ratr>** • • & <i 1‘rnlrtr 1’lpr L Prodtir&ll t»f. l»nrr <»U Purity linking Ritilrottd >r« ltayh«»f*1«Mt M». Rmdins Reading let pt Republic Ht pf y«cliuUe str pt rienb Air 1- pt Sotit hero Rw v Nnuth’n Ry Pf Kptinjr X'hmlf’t Sterling cv pf Superior Oil Superior Steel ThnnijMion Pr«» Tide W Ahkoc Tidewater OU l?nlon Pacific. I n Am
Un Piero Pje Ub&For'n 1pf US Gypaum pf I S Rubber pf
I S Steel pf.. Unit Storrs A I niv Pict inf Vnlcnn-4»rt pf WnbtiMh pf 4. Harf MM 2i»r WrotM lMcItir White Kock .. WUmx O1IAC. Zenith jRnclit*. Zonlto Prod ..
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.