Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 21, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
ast
the Market
. Market
Can money renewal.........
Time money, SO days...... Acceptance, so dayi...... Commercial paper.........
Fmsce. cables...........
Bterllnr cables............ New York bank rate........
Reserve System ratio......
CcSee, Bio. September.... Copper, delivered.........
Com. September .......... Cotton, October........... Hides, September..........
bead. New "York...........
Oats, September...........
Rubber, No. 1 staad’d Sept. Silk, raw, October....
Sliver. New York......
Sugar, raw, September. Tin, September.........
Wbeal, September.... Wool tops. September. Zinc, Rost St. nouis.
3SS2
Diary
Tburadiy ' 1933	:
1%	2%
	
	
i%@%%	
.0549	,0391%
	3.55%
	2%%
M-4%	57.7%
6.00	6.18
8	5%
53	31%
10.72	5.73
13.25	4.70
4.50	2.65
34 %	17%
8.50	2.85
2.04	1.24
38%	27
1.46	0.98
46.05	20.75
91	47%
94.30	40-00
5.00	3.50

commodities
New and drastic declines in the markets, Including an early afternoon break of $5 a bale in cotton and a steep decline in wheat, sent stocks dropping downward swiftly in the late trading yesterday. All groups shared in the sell-off, even the railroad shares tumbling. Not only the highly volatile alcohol stocks and other groups which have had wide run-ups were under pressure, but the market leaders, like Steel commoiij-duPont, Telephone and American Can were all hard hit in the general, volume selling which swept the market.
National Distillers, which lost 25% points Wednesday, closed off another 18%; American Commercial Alcohol, off 21% on Wednesday, lost 18% or more, and Commercial Solvents was down 9, on top of a loss of 13% the previous session. There were plenty of other heavy losers scattered throughout the list. Even the utilities, which had not shared in the late stages of the advance, dropped precipitately. Western Union, for instance, dipped 9%.
Trading volume soared to 8,120,000 shares, the largest volume since May 5, 1930. In the last hour, when the market was acutely weak, 3,320,000 Bhares changed hands. The stock ticker did not finish grinding out prices until 3:38, a record late '	'	‘
ticker.
The wide break afternoon, after the rally a little In the the steep set-backs stock market, and in other markets, stop-loss orders were uncovered on the downswing, accelerating tpe decline. In the cotton market, orders flooded in in extremely large amounts, including selling from Wall Street and commission houses and from firms with western connections. Brokers had difficulty in executing orders.
The break in grains was as spectacular as that which occurred in cotton'. December wheat was down around 17 cents a bushel, at one time, with stop-loss orders a factor in sending market off. Other grains were weak, too.
While the weakness in commodities was major factor in bringing about the drastic action, there were other items which discomfited the financial community. Sterling was weak, an accompaniment to renewed talk of the possibility of stabilization and the British conversion plan. General Johnson’s remarks on
close for the high-speed
which took place in the market had managed to morning, followed closely in commodities. In the
the
the
re-
the need for increasing purchasing power was another item which troubled’ the market Generally excellent corporation reports for the second quarter and similar cheering news on the state of industry were ignored. '
Closing prices for wheat showed the major cereal off 13 to 15 cents a bushel. Corn was off around 12 cents a bushel, and other grains shared in the acute'weakness.
The bond market, which held well in the decline on Wednesday, suffered a setback. Profittaking went forward in the speculative issues, and even high-grade bonds were under pressure. Government bonds were Irregular.
Foreign markets were all heavy. In Paris, the whole list dropped off, while in London, only the metal shares managed to survive the general wave of selling.
Senator Thomas Protests
The telegram from Senator Elmer Thomas of Oklahoma, brought forth by the decline in prices on Wednesday, indicates that the group in Washington which has in the past been active in demanding legislation to control the exchanges, still is on the watch. Since April, when prices for securities have been on the rise, a discreet silence has been maintained; but at the first decline, which thoughtful people in the financial community welcomed, the hue and cry for regulation is raised once more.
Senator Thomas ought to study the markets a little more thoroughly before he talks about the Stock Exchange laying down a rule “establishing a reasonable amount of depreciation in any one session”. After all, since the first of April, the stock market, as measured by the Dow-Jones industrial average—even including the declines Wednesday and yesterday—is up 73% from the April 1 level, and the average of 20 railroad stocks during the period has moved up 97%. Senator Thomas might also recognize the fact that responsible people in the financial community have been deploring the speculation in the alcohol Btocks for ten days or more, and have pointed out repeatedly the top-heavy speculative positions built up by excited public buying in those stockB. Brokers and banks, with collateral loans, have been attempting to put the brakes on speculation in the group by marking up margin requirements and marking down the value of alcohol stocks included among the security for collateral loans.
Big Quarter for Com Refiners
The second quarter was the best the corn refining companies have had in a long time, with both Penick & Ford and Corn Products having a big pick-up in earnings. Penick’s net income for the three months was equal to $1.10 a share on the 400,000 no-par shares outstanding, while Corn Product’s net was equal, after preferred dividends, to $1.05 a share on the 2,530,000 common shares outstanding.
April and May were the big months of the quarter, and business slackened somewhat in late June. It is quite likely that per share Income in the third quarter will not be as large as in the second, as business so far in July has run below the average maintained in the second three months of the year. The outlook for both companies for the year as a whole, however, continues to be extremely good. Corn Products, in the first half, covered the 75-cent quarterly
common dividend requirements by a comfortable margin, and Penick’s firstbalf year net was 74 cents over the regular annual dividend requirements of $1 a share. Last year Penick paid an extra of $1 in addition to the regular dividend. If earnings hold up, it is not inconceivable that stockholders will receive a larger payment this year.
The Performance of Bonds	.
... One of the influences which has played a sizable part in attracting new buying into the stock market on sell-off has been the steadiness in the bond market, and the ability of certain classes of bonds to move up to new highs even when stocks were weak. Despite the sharp reaction in the stock market Wednesday, the Dow-Jones averages for both the high-grade and second-grade railroad bonds made new highs for the year, and even yesterday, when stocks were acutely weak, the second grade rail bond average lost only'4.10, and high grade rails were down only one-one-hundredth of a point.
The ability of this section of the bond market to hold relatively firm was an encouraging sign. The strength in bonds, in view of the constant talk of inflation, has been impressive. While there was a considerable amount of speculative buying in cheap rail and industrial bonds, in the early stages of the advance, .much of the recent strength has been due to the fact that traders, with large profits in stocks, took their profits and bought bonds, seeking protection from a sudden shakeout in stocks and'a higher return on their funds.
Independents Doing the Best
Second quarter reports of the steel companies will show that the smaller companies In the industry, particularly those who get a lot of business from miscellaneous buyers and the moor companies, did better than the big companies m the Industry. The small companies, particu-arly National Steel, responded more speedily o the upturn in general business, due to the fact that miscellaneous business, which was the first to show a real pick-up, forms a larger proportion of their total volume than it does for the larger companies. Their operations moved up faster than those of United States Steel, when the pick-up came.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are Included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
report, and
Additions yesterday 19 7 12
Since Julyl 92 60 111
6
6
1
Increased earnings .. Decreased earnings . Unchanged dividends Decreased dividends Increased dividends Deferred dividends ..
High and Low Prices
“ Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, two stbeks made
1 ,, I
20 stocks made new highs and new lows, for the year 1933.
New Highs Erie ........
(«en B Biff pf Hud & Man pf Illinois Cent’J III Cent pf A Int By of C A
New Lows
Hniel Atliui.*
Aw Ag Ch pf Abraham & Ht Archr Daniels Chrysler .... CMStPAP pf. Oh X‘neumntlc ConCis: prpfxw
LouUlanaO pf Martin • Parry NY.,C&8tl pf. Fltti Ter C pf Unit Storefl pf Weston E I A
Deere & Co
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.