Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 28, 1933; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15	-	~
Abreast of
the
Market
Hlarket Diary		
	Monday	
	1933	3932
Call money renewal		%%	1%
Time money, 90 days	.,	KG'1%	%%
Aeccptaaces, 90 days		%«?%%	%©’%%
Commercial paper.		1®%%	1%©>%%
France, cable* 				.0606	.0391%
BterUns cables			6.10%	3.19
New York bank rate..... ^	2%	2%%
Reserve System ratio....M	65.1%	64.1%
Coffee, Rio. December		5 80	5.94
Copper, delivered		 ..	8%	
Cora, December. ..........	43 %	23%
Cotton. December	  ,	9 69	5.66
Hides, December		9 80	4.15
Dead, New York..			4.30	3.00
Oats. December...........	31%	15%
Rubber, No. 1 stand’d Dec.	8.28	3.21
Bilk, yaw, December		1.27	1.38
Silver, New York		42	25%
Sugar, raw. December	 Tin. December		1.19	0.78
	62.00	21.75
Wheat, December			81%	42%
Wool tope. December......	106.0	50.0
Zinc, Rast Su Louis		4.50	3.15
Uncertainty, created by the impending battle of the monetary experts, found its reflection in stock trading at the start of the new week.
Prices gave ground easily, but at the outset this was due more to the absence of buying interest, rather than to any important volume of liquidation. Selling activity picked up In the last hour, and prices gave further ground.
With the sound money advocates and inflationists setting up rival camps and preparing mass meetings in New York City, Wall Street allowed its attention to be diverted away from the markets for the moment. A further substantial rally in the dollar in relation to the pound sterling and maintenance of the Reconstruction Finance Corp.’s price for domestic gold at $33.76 an ounce for the sixth successive day helped to discourage bullish commitments based on inflation psychology, and brought some selling into the gold and metal shares. Shortly after mid-day the market leaders showed losses of from 1 to 4 points on the day.
The grain markets recovered from their early heaviness, but weakened again near the close, showing losses of % to % cent a bushel on the day. Cotton prices were about $1 a bale under Saturday’s levels.
The bond market responded to the dollar’s’ buoyancy. With sterling off 15 cents at the peak of the dollar’s upward move, and showing little inclination to rally materially, the government bond list and domestic corporation issues in the high-grade category showed pronounced strength. Ronds of the gold bloc countries sold off sharply after their sensational advances of the past several weeks, German bonds were independently strong in the foreign government list.
Stock exchanges In Faris and London showed mixed tendencies, and prices were mixed.
savings along lines which hitherto have been considered impossible due to the necessity of preserving competitive conditions. The Reconstruction Finance Corp, is taking- a ralistlc attitude, recognizing that the savings possible thmugh elimination of one of two competing lines, through consolidation, are far greater than can be achieved in any other way.
In its report the Reconstruction Finance Corp, pointed out that the Frisco and the Katy lines paralleled each other between several •points. Realists always have recognized that this effort to encourage competition was costly but the law on this point always stood as a barrier against any effective correction of the condition. The Reconstruction Finance Corp, has put its fingar on the difficulty and it Is important because it is the first official recognition of the trouble.
Comparisons Are Popular
Business men and the public generally like to make comparisons with the previous year. Recognition of this fact Is one of the reasons behind the persistent bullishness of a certain section in Wall Street. It is pointed out that by next February and March industry will be making comparisons with the period when business was just about stagnant in the country as a result of the banking crisis. For this reason sentiment on the stock market, it is figured, has an excellent chance of being at its best late in th a winter and many are accumulating stocks in anticipation of such a development.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated. * _ *
Increased earnings .. Decreased earnings . Unchanged dividends Resumed dividends . Decreased dividends Increased dividends , Omitted dividends .. Initial dividends . ..
Since	Additions
Oct. 1	yesterday
244	2
180	1
390	10
29	2
3	
29	1
4
7
1
High and Low Prices
Monday, on the New York Stock Exchange, three stocks (Evans Products, Procter & Gamble pfd. and Tide Water Associated pfd.) made new highs, and two stocks (Roan Antelope and United Drug) made new low’s, for the year 1933.
The Risk in Seeking •‘Safety”
Some of the risks involved in sending capital out of the country to seek safety already arc becoming apparent. From the high of $5.52% for the pound sterling, reached November 16, a reaction of nearly 50 cents has occurred. In other words, the person who allowed himself to be moved by the hysteria of the moment and transferred dollars into sterling at the top of the move has a loss on the basis of recent quotations for the two currencies of about 9% on his capital, all within a period of a little over 10 days. The man of moderate means might well "think twice” before rushing into the popular avenues of "safety.”	*
Business News Encouraging
Underneath the roar and dm raised by the monetary experts there is a confident hum of the business world which is proving of great help to the market in its hour of need. A marked pick-up in retail sales, a 5% gain in steel operations at Youngstown to start the week and official reports of a rapid recovery in export trade are more definitely reassuring than the loud and abstract exclamations of the monetary warriors. Wall Street is concerned over the gold standard fight, but it is not overlooking the type of business reports being published.
Knoxville for Municipal Operation
Knoxville voters upset the utility apple-cart by approving a bond issue for a municipal power distribution system. For the first time in several months the adverse news did not affect the utility stocks much at the resumption of trading after the week-end. Leaders of the group were steady at the start and eased only when the general list sagged downward.
The Knoxville vote was a blow to the Tennessee Public Service Co., controlled by the National Power & Light, one of the Electric Bond & Share group. Knoxville is the first major city in the Tennessee Valley Authority area to approve a municipal distribution system. Success of the municipal proposal in Knoxville is likely to give a new impetus to bond issue proposals in other cities in the area.
New Baals for Consolidation
A study of the Reconstruction Finance Corp.’s proposal for consolidation of the St. Louis-San Francisco and Missouri-Kansas-Texas shows definitely that the Reconstruction Finance Corp, is pushing consolidation of the two lines on a basis which would mean elimination of competition, junking of trackage and heavy
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.