Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 23, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
UfarTcet		Diary	
Call money renewal...		Thursday 3033	1932 1% 2%%	
Time money, 30 day*..		1%	1%%
Acceptance*. 90 days..	. •.. w		ie% ori%
Commercial paper				2%©%%
Francs, cables ........		.0489%	.0393%
Steriin* cables		...«	4.21%	3.61%
New York bank rate..		2%%	2%4&
Reserve System ratio..	...»	68.5%	59.3%
Coffee. Rio. July			5.69	6.18
Copper, delivered......		8	5%
Coro. July				47% ‘	30%
Cotton, July			9.21	5.19
Hide*. September			11.80	3.59
X*ead, New York			4.20	3.00
Oats. July			33%	20%
Rubber. No. 1 stand’d	July	6.03	2.61
8111c. row, July			2.05	1.14
Silver. New York			35%	27%
8uxar. raw, July			1.39	0 82
Tin, July			42.95	39.25
Wheat. July		......	78%	47%
Wool tops. July			......	86.00	49.00
Zinc, East St. Lou!*..		4.35	2.7S&2.80
A flood of rumors that France might quit the gold standard brought a burst of heavy selling into the stock market In the last half hour of trading yesterday. The list gave ground easily all along the line. Breaks in some of the leaders were wide, with stocks like Steel common, Bethlehem Steel, DuPont, American Can and Telephone propping precipitately when the selling was at its height. Stop-loss orders again were uncovered on the decline, accelerating its pace. Stocks snapped back in the final few minutes of trading, but they closed with fair sized losses on the day.
Early strength in sterling, which carried it up to a new high around $4.24, and the routine batch of cheering news on domestic developments failed to inspire the market. It was called on to absorb heavy selling in the morning, after early strength, and did so, recovering most of the ground lost on rhe setback. The late wave of polling did not break out until the last half hour, and the downturn was swift and emphatic. Trading volume picked up on the sell-off. Losses in some of the volatile performers ran to 4 or more points.
The clarification of the American position at the economic conference in London, the chief item on the overnight news, was a development of long-term importance. The United States delegation is insisting on a world program for bringing about a rise in international prices as a precursor of any stabilization agreement. Until Assistant Secretary of State Moley reaches London, actual developments of vital importance in London are not anticipated.
The course of prices was upward in bonds. A number of the junior railroad issues touched new highs, helped by the good loadings reports, and high-grade railroad obligations were firm. Industrial and utilities were steady, and governments advanced a trifle.
All deliveries of wheat touched new highs in the early dealings, spurred by the weakness in sterling and additional reports of damage to the growing crop. Profit-taking was absorbed, and the close found the major cereal up % to %-cent a bushel. Corn was lower, but rye staged a Bharp upswing. Cotton was up most of the day, but closed off 2 to 7 points.
Oil and mining shares moved higher in London. In Paris, the Bourse was firm and trading activity picked up a little.
erty. The first step is being taken with the court’s authorization of expenditures of roughly $500,000, most of It for new rail. Other roads, including the Seaboard and the Missouri Pacific, are spending more on equipment and on maintenance than when they were trying to stave off the inevitable falling traffic and earnings.
Helped by Dollar Depreciation
Companies with far flung investments in foreign countries, and foreign subsidiaries which contribute a substantial proportion of earnings, should benefited by depreciation in the dollar in terms of foreign currencies. In the group must be included Standard of New Jersey, Socony-Vacuum, American & Foreign Power, International Telephone and Corn Products, among others. Wide fluctuations in currencies are troublesome to these companies, too, and therefore, stabilization would help them, assuming that stabilization is brought about with the value of the dollar depreciated in relation to that of foreign currencies.
One troublesome factor in the operations of such companies as American & Foreign Power and International Telephone has been restrictions on transfer of exchange. Such restrictions still are in effect, and they do militate against these companies, but they are being lightened somewhat In a few areas.
How They Stan a
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included 'according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Since April 1 Increased earnings......... 226
Decreased earnings........ 623
Unchanged dividends....... 841
Decreased dividends........ 69
Increased dividends........ 18
Initial dividends........... 8
Additions Saturday
*2
22
2
High and Low Prices
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange 82 stocks made new highs and no stock made a new low, for the year 1933.
Am Locomoti Ara Meat in*.. Am Sucar pf. Aiwnclntrd* Oil Barker Br. pf ftarzMdnll . . IBerrh Nut Pk Belc N RB pf Best H Co.... Brtlilrliem StI Blcelnw Kanfd Bucyrun E 7pf Olanr«r Corp C & Nor W Pf Clnrk Equip’*. Collin* ft Aik ComlnT Contlnen’l Inn Continental OB l>4w*rr As ('<» Pt Dcvne&Ray A Durham XI pf Fidelity l*hen Gabriel Co. A Gencnil Clear Genertd Milla. GcnPrtlnk pf Gen Refmct'i
New Highs <«en Refrnc ct Gltnbel Bros Glmbci Br pf Glidden Co . . Gmalte City b llurblaonW pr Hercule* Mot. Ilouatun Oil... Ilouatnn Oil n Int Hiirvwt pf JnhnK Mun pf l.lCRrctt & My.
Lorllinrri lob I.orlliurd pf Mntllaon So G Muy Dept Nto klid-Cont Petr Snthinni Lend Nrlanrr Bro*. N Y Central.. Ohio OU.......
Veerleaa Mot FetrCor of Am Phillip* Fetrui Phoenix 11 oa.
Plymouth OU. Poor & Co. B
Prairie Pipe X.
Pure OU..... iuu a c<».... Bel* & Co. pf Reynold* Spr. Savage Arm*. HhBrp&Dohme Sharp&Doli pf Shattuck, F G Shell Union O Skelly Oil pf. «orony \ iir’m. South Dnlr> A
-»td OU of N J Texas Corp .
Tide W Aaane TTjdeW Aaao pf ~nlon BncXl' i ’nlon Oil Cal Union Pac nf. <1 8 Gypsum.. 17 8 Tobacco. Van Rnnlte .. Ward Buk B WebaterEla pf Wesson Oil pf Wheelin* 8t*i.
A Just Wage Settlement
The extension of the existing wage agreement between organized labor and railroad managements, providing for a 10% deduction from the 1929 wage scale, was the best possible settlement the the carriers, could have hoped for. Tbe present wage agreement now carries until July 15, 1934, and If the traffic trend continues on the up-grade, the carirers should be able to make impmsaive showing in net railway operating income.
The position of Joseph B. Eastman, railroad coordinator, in the conference resulting in the amicable settlement of the wage controvrsy was a delicate one. He had no actual powers, granted to Congress, to enter the despute, but acted merely as the Administration’s representative in attempting to iron out what might have developed into a serious dispute. That the whole matter was cleared up amicably and with dispatch is a credit to Mr. Eastman as well as the railroad managers and representatives of organized labor. Railroad executives hardly hoped to get any additional reductions in wages. The announcement that they would seek another 12%% reduction was a strategic move, designed to bring the whole wage matter to a head and to get immediate action. It accomplished that purpose.
Railroad labor could not have been expected to agree to any further cuts with traffic and railroad earnings on the uptrend. Railroad managements, on the other hand, should not be expected to take any action to raise wages for some time to come, for basic rates of pay to organized railroad labor were kept up to tbe 1929 scale long after the railroads had begun to suffer heavy losses as result of declining traffic, and never have suffered reductions comparable to those in other lines.
Aluminum Exports Move Up
Exports of aluminum from Canada, in May, took a sharp jump, reflecting a general improvement in demand. Exports of the metal were valued at $1,170,000, against $227,000 in May, 1932. Exports to the United States constituted only a very small proportion of the total, but they were ahead of the like month of last year. The big increase came in shipments to the United Kingdom.
Edward K. Davis, president of Aluminum, Ltd., predicted early this year that the aluminum industry in Canada would be benefited by the Ottawa trade agreements. He pointed out that nearly 70% of the company’s investments are within the British Empire.
The aluminum industry, generally, should share importantly in any general recovery in business. New uses for aluminum are being developed constantly, and its use in railroad equipment construction is as yet an untouched field. If copper prices move up, as they should in event there is any agreement in London on a program to bring about a rise in world prices, the spread between the price of aluminum and copper will be narrowed, which will help aluminum consumption. Officials of Bohn Aluminum & Brass, one of the big factors In the industry in this country, have pointed out the steady improvement in the company's business. Bohn omitted the dividend early in 1932, but resumed payments early this month on a 25-cent quarterly basis instead of the previous rate of 37% cents.
Starting a Rehabilitation Program
As long as the St. Louis-San Francisco was fighting to keep out of the courts it spent no money on new equipment and it slashed maintenance expenditures right and left. Now that it is in process of reorganization, and Is not pay* ing interest on its obligations, it has funds to spend on equipment and maintenance, and can embark on a program to rehabilitate the prop-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.