Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 26, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13 '	,	_ .	-	•	.	...
Abreast of the Market
Market Diary
z.	Friday
1933
- - - W
%»%%
.0568% 4.65%
67.9
5.62
9 51% 9.65
12.50
4.50 38% 7.53
1.89
36 n
1.46 88%
95.50
4.80
moacy	....
jnoney, 90 days.-... ' Arcntfnncea, 90 days...... Camaitrclxl paper.........
Franca, cables ............ Sterling - cables...........7 .New Yoric bank Tate.....^ jRwwrra System ratio....,.
Coffee. .Rio, September..»• Copper, delivered.........
Cora. September........... Cutton. October...... i.... Hides. September..........
New York...........
Oats, September...........
Rubber, No. 1 etand’d Sept. Bilk, raw, October.........
-Silver, New York.........
Sugar,.raw,. September.... Wheat, September.....,..,. Wool tops, September..... Zinc, East St. louis......
The spark needed to send the
1933
’ ■ S *■ i%©%%
1% .0392 A 3.46% 2%% 60.4%
7.03 5%
30* .8.58 5.90 3.50
16% 3185 1.66
28%
1.0S 52 58.00 2.75 62.80
The spark needed to send the stock market upward, was •forthcoming- in the weekly Federal Reserve statement, showing that Reserve pur-cahBes of governments had been stepped up to $35,000,000 in tbe latest week, and stocks staged a strong upward move in the final-session of the week. The other major Item on the overnight griBt of news was announcement that an agreement had been reached at the wheat conference in London, an agreement which was more favorable to the United States than anticipated.
Stocks and commodities were strong from the opening gong, with trading volume in the form.r staging a sharp increase. The market wasn’t a runaway affair, but advances in the leaders exceded 4 points, in some cases, Homestake staged a big jump, up more than 24 points, leading the gold mining company shares. Allied Chemical, du Font, Steel common and Chrysler were among the well tried leaders which were pushed into new high ground for the upswing. Agricultural Implement shares bounded ahead; rails were higher, and utilities showed real strength for the first time in weeks. Trading in stocks was pushed up to 3,328,410 shares, the largest day’s trading of the month so far.
The Federal Reserve statement' revealing a sharp increase in purchases of Government securities, and the wheat news was enough to arouse the markets, but there were developments in other directions which were calculated to stir interest in stocks. The dollar sank sharply,, to within a narrow margin of its lowest price, in the foreign exchange markets. It was weak against sterling, and actutely weak in comparison with the continental gold currencies. The tumble in the dollar, of course, revived inflation interest in stocks. Another batch of excellent. railroad reports for July, the regular General Electric -dividend, and a slight increase in lumber orders were favoring items.
Speculative bonds were responsive to the overnight news, but the high-grade groups did little. Among domestic corporation issues, the industrial list was the best. Foreign gold currency issues ranged upward, moving in sympathy with the strength in the continental currencies. Governments were higher.
The upward swing in - grains carried wheat 2% to 3% cents higher at the finish, which wasn't far from the day's highs. Com gained 1% to 2% cents, and other grains moved with them.- Cotton gained $1.25 a bale.	..
The foreign markets were improved. Oils and mining shares did the best in London, and in Paris, the whole list was higher.
Loans’ Drop Exceeds That of Market
A comparison of the most recent brokers’ loan statement and that covering the week ended July 19 with Big Board prices for the two periods indicates that the past five weeks have seen a distinct improvement in the technical position of the stock market. It is pretty apparent that stocks have moved from relatively weak hands into stronger hands in this period.
For the week ended July 19 brokers' loans Btood at $967,000,000. The loan statement period didn’t take in the sharp contraction which occurred at the beginning of the list's steep decline; it just about coincided with the market highs. For the week ended August 23 loans were down to $853,000,000. They had declined just short of 12% in the period. The stock market, as measured by the Dow-Jones industrial and railroad averages, isn't off nearly as much. The industrial average at the close of the period covered by the latest brokers’ loan figures was down just over 6%. and the mil average less than 8% from the mld-July high. "
Cost of Living Holds Under 1932 Level
While 'the cost of living rose pretty sharply in July over the June level, which was to be expected, it still is holding under the July, 1932, level, the National Industrial Conference Board reports. On a percentage basis it is only 2.3% under a year ago, but the figures, taken in conjunction with some others, are pretty encouraging.
The Federal Reserve Bulletin for July showed that payrolls last month were 49.9% of the 1923-1925 average, compared with'40% in July, 1932. In other words, while payrolls have shown a wide Increase over a year ago, the cost of living has shown a small decline, indicating that a backlog of consumer purchasing power is being built up.
The Conference Board says that the cost of living last month was down 24.8% from July, 1929. In a number of the codes drawn for industries wages have been put back to the , 1929 scale. Wage earners under them actually have
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
1 > ■ - . a purchasing power, based on the cost at living, about 25% higher than'they had four years ago. Some of that margin, naturally, will go to pay rtphts. but a lot of it will remain for the purchase of goods which many families in the country have done ■without for the last three years.	.	....
Selectivity in Balls
Buyers of the rail stocks, outside of a few in the group, are exercising considerable care to pick a stock in a company which hasn’t added substantially to its debt burden over the last three, years. The recent report of the Interstate Commerce Commissinn- on the short-term _ debt built up by the Boston & Maine ifi the past three years calls attention once more to the way in which some carriers have added to- their charges. The B. & M. has outstanding $13,924,437 in short term notes, of which roughly $13,000,000 are due over the balance of the year.	'.
The outlook for dividends by carriers which have added substantially to their debt burdens isn't bright In the first place, those with any nearby maturities want to build up their cash positions. In the second, the special adviser to the R. F. C. on railroad matters, A. A. Berle, has indicated quite clearly that the powers in Washington are interested in having railroads, which have been borrowers over the last three years, pay off their debts. They don’t look with favor, either, on having this accomplished through long-term bond refinancing. While the improvement fix carrier earnings naturally has been.reflected in rising prices for the raiload share group, there are only a few railroads from which higher dividends, or the restoration of dividend payments, may be anticipated over the next six or eight months.
Expansion in Ore Movement
For some railroads traffic ebbed a little in early August from the July level, but the first two weeks of the month were big ones for the ore carriers, judged by Great Northern's loadings. In the two weeks ended August 12 Great Northern,moved 10,812 cars of ore, compared with 1,183 in the like weeks of 1932. Total loadings of the road, reflecting this boom in ore shipments, were almost ’ exactly 50% over the like 1932 weeks. The ore season doesn’t end for the road until early October, and ore shipments are still running at a high level. Crude Price Rise a Surprise
The advance in crude oil prices may be taken as a forerunner of further advances in the not distant future. The top gravity mid-Continent crude is bringing, under the new scale, 72 cents a parrel. Under the oil code, the President will fix prices for a-test period, and the industry looks for somewhere between $1.10 and $1.20 a barrel for the top gravity product. •
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest 1 are not duplicated.- .	. z .
Since July 1 369 260 381 ' 6 30 1 5
_	Prices
Friday, on the New York Stock 26 stocks made new highs and a
mcreased earnings ....... Decreased earnings ....... Unchanged dividends ...... Decreased dividends ..... Increased dividends ........ Deferred dividends .......
Omitted dividends ......
High and Low
new low, for
Air Reduction Alllcil Chem’i Amcrada ...» Am Snuff «..« Atliia Tuck.. Bangor&Ar pf Belg N RR pf Bent <Sr Co.... Che* A Ohio,.
the year 1933.
New EUghs Chryaler .... Collin* & Aik Gamewell ... Gen Motor*.. Hall Prlntlnr. nomrstake Ml (nt Ry C A nt Liggett & My. TAgg A My B.
report, and
Additions yesterday 4 6 9
Exchange, no stock made
Mnylar vf ww Maxtor 1st pf Penney <J O) Pirelli Co.... Reynold* To B U 8 Bmeltlnr, U 8 Hmelt pf. VlckubSkP pf WllcoxRlch A
portance which would have far-reaching economic effects. Wall Street was intensely pleased with this and a lot of buying of shares, particularly agricultural securities, was a result
* • , •
There are some in the Street who seriously doubt that the Armour & Co. officials will proceed with the plan for a recapitalization of the company in view of the extent of the opposition which has arisen. Even if the company does secure the necessary two-thirds vote to make the plan effective, cost of buying out dissenting stockholders would probably prove too large a burden on the company’s finances. Under the Illinois law, a stockholder who dissents has the right to have hiB stock appraised and then redeemed by the company at the appraisal price.
• • • • !
The sulphur stocks which have been Inactive in recent sessions moved ahead to best levelB of the current advance on buying based on expectation of improved fall earnings. There has been no change in the price of sulphur in many years and a recovery of normal demand therefore would mean a recovery of normal earning power.
• • •
Metal stocks were in demand and smelting issues also have’ been leaders, with U. S. Smelting selling at a new high for 1933. There is a strong feeling in industrial circles that metals will be higher in the next 60 days and that the manufacturing demand for copper, zinc and lead will increase considerably before the end of September.
“Purely Gossip”—
Those who were waiting for the rise “after Labor Day” have found their tardiness quite expensive.
The public came into the market in mild quantity, Friday, and bought some stock, but it was not sufficiently large to call it public participation in the market. Strong buyers and sponsorship, plus professional operations, still are behind the advance.	’
Foreigners have taken little or no hand in the current advance. There is always a small ebb and flow of securities with abroad, but it has been of subnormal totals.	'
•	a •	'
s While leading radio manufacturing companies have Increased their inventories in expectation of a good receiving set business this fall and winter, they have been careful .both as to quantity and manufacturing them to sell at the “right prices.’’ The argument that NRA is making for leisure and turning the public more to amusement is expected to do a lot for the radio business.	.
•	# »
“It's an ill wind, etc.,” and the huge damage done by storms is going to bring a lot of business to construction and housebuilding companies.	.
• • *
The wheat agreement was regarded as a piece of constructive news of paramount im-
-Broad street Gossip