Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 20, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Market
Diary
Call money renewal.......
Time money, 90 days......
Acceptances, 90 days...... Commercial paper...........
Franc*, cables........
Sterling cables.........
New York bank rate........
Reserve System ratio.......
Coffee, Rio. December..... Copper, delivered.........
Corn. December...........
Cotton, December...........
Hides, December.......... Lead, New York...........
Oats. December ..........
Rubber, No. 1 stand'd Dec. silk, raw. October.......
Silver, New York.........
sugar, raw, December.....
Tin, December............
Wheat. December..........
Wool tops, December......
Zinc, 2£ast St. Louis... .
Thursday 1933	1932 1«%
	4* ©1%
44©%^	
	1H©4*%
-0557	.0393 V*
4.53	3.40
2«%	
65.5«*	ei.3%
5.40	4.42
744^’%	6%
♦ IV.	254*
9.16	6.26
8.00	5.00
4 00	3.00 ©3.05
294.	15%
6 99	3.38
1.43	1.56
364.	27%
1.12	LOS
45 45	23.35
79 %	484*
99.0	83.8
4.75	3.00©3.05
Heavy liquidation and forced selling; from, traders with impaired accounts drove stocks to new low ground for the downswing Thursday. Government buying in the grain pit served to bring about a half-hearted rally from tho day’s lows in wheat and other grains. Stocks rallied for a time, but turned down again late and closed in new low ground for the downswing. Losses on the day, in the majority of cases, were limited to less than 7 points. The alcohol stocks were the best performers in the list, National Distillers closing unchanged in spite of weakness elsewhere.
There was nothing in the overnight news on the Administration’s policy or on the current state of business to rouse the financial community from its current pessimistic frame of mind. A handful of earnings reports testified to the Improvement in corporate profits which took place in the third quarter. The Administration announced further steps to control production of cotton goods, and Secretary Wallace made public the terms of the processing tax on hogs. None of these items, nor n-nything- else, igt*3 rnyppr! the selling which swept over the markets in the early dealings.
Trading was heavy in the first two hours, and the list gave way all along the line. Steel common, Atchison, New York Central, Union Pacific and a number of other issues dropped to new lows on the reaction. The list steadied and turned quiet in the early afternoon, but slumped again on volume in the last half hour. Trans, actions reached 2,900,000 shares, the biggest total since September 22.	-	~
Weakness in bonds, early In the day, carried the second grade railroad issues lower, but the best grade rail and utility bonds held up well. A rally in German issues was a feature of the foreign list. Government obligations were higher.
Wheat could not hold the full rally, and closed mixed. The December delivery, at the finish, was up 1’1 to Ts cents a bushel, while other deliveries finished lower. Coarse grains all were off. Cotton was little changed.
Foreign markets were quiet. In London, prices were lower, while in Pans, the list was steady, except for rentes.
Utility Hate Maneuvering in Cincinnati
Less than three weeks before the city’s voters are scheduled to vote on a proposal for issuing city bonds to buy the local utility plant and operate it municipally, the Cincinnati city council has passed a measure providing for cutting the Cincinnati Gas & Electric Co.’s rates by $4,121,592. The council’s move bears all the earmarks of a smartly timed maneuver designed to sway public sentiment in the forthcoming election. The company hardly can accept the reductions, and fighting them at the present time, no matter how sound the legal ground on which the company stands may be, is impolitic.
What the rate reductions would mean, if they were put into effect, may be gathered from thb Cincinnati Gas & Electric's report for 1932. The company reported net for the year of $5,377,930, and a rate cut of the amount proposed, without any increase in business, would eliminate about four-fifths of the company’s net income. It would mean inability of the company to pay full preferred dividends, which amount to $2,000,000 annually. Common dividends. which amounted to $3,375,000 last year, would be eliminated, of course.
to flood the American market. Foreign liquor so imported might have cut heavily into sales of domestic liquor.
The move, while it may help the American liquor making companies, is another sample of setting up trade barriers. Officials made it clear, of course, that they will be ready to open the American market to foreign liquor, if domestic prices advance too widely, but it is a lot easier to put on an embargo than it is to lift it, once it is on.
Selling In Consolidated Oil
Over a period of several months, persistent selling has come into Consolidated Oil through one or two houses. The transactions have been handled by several brokers, but the selling has borne the earmarks, some traders say, of the liquidation of a large position in the, stock. The spiling hasn’t brought unusual heaviness in Consolidated, but it has been something of a weight on the stock during periods when the oils were rallying.
One of the major interests in Consolidated is the Rockefeller holding. After consolidation of Sinclair Consolidated OH, predecessor of the present Consolidated, with Prairie Oil & Gas and Prairie Pipe Line, the Rockefeller family holdings were estimated at approximately 1,450,000 shares, assuming that full conversion of their holdings in the two Prairie companies took place. On January 30, 1932, the Rockefeller interest in Prairie Pipe amounted to 596,725 shares, and in Prairie Oil & Gas to 356,580. In addition, John D. Rockefeller held on March 9, 1932, 253,600 shares of Sinclair Consolidated Oil. Prairie Oil & Gas was exchanged on a 1 for 1 basis, while holders of Prairie Pipe received 1.4 shares of Consolidated for each share, and Sinclair stock got 1 for 1.
Baking Companies Buying Flour
Baking companies have been heavy buyers of flour recently, entering the market during periods of weakness to cover themselves on future needs. Heavy buying of flour by the baking companies has been a factor in bringing out purchases of gTain by milling companies.
Break in Commodities
While cotton was steady yesterday, and wheat mixed at the close, commodity markets which didn’t feel the effects of Government aid were heavy all along the line. Spot sugar, as a sample, sold at 1.20 cents a pound, off 3 points from the last spot sale and the lowest price since April 29. The high on spot sugar this year was 1.65 cents a pound, yesterday’s sale representing a decline of about 25% from the year’s best.
July Lows Penetrated
The July bottom in the Dow-Jones industrial average was penetrated decisively yesterday. Heavy selling in the late dealings forced the average down to S4.38 at the close, a little more than 4 points under the July 22 bottom. Brokers reported, after the close, that the further decline in stocks meant additional margin calls, in considerable volume.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies com* pared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Increased earnings .......
Decreased earnings .......
Unchanged dividends........
Resumed dividends ........
Decreased dividends.......
Increased dividends ,.....
Omitted dividends.......
Since
Oct 1
99
36
105
1
Additions yesterday 11
3 11
2
1
High and Low prices
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, one stock made a new high and nine stocks made new lows, for the year 1933.
New High. rrocter&G pt.
New Lows
Con Lnundrien0 X Y Dock pf { Merlins- Frtxl, (milium b lln ' 1‘urifle GtiM.t fl I White Motor. Life bsreni... ; Pnr	Oil I White Rock...
Liquor Import Embargo
The embargo on liquor import*-, clapped on by the federal government, put a damper on the foreign liquor securities, traded in on the New York exchanges. It bolstered the market for the American liquor stocks, particularly National Distillers, which held firm in the morning selling wave and was one of the first stocks to start an upward move when severe pressure on the markets was lifted. The embargo affects imports of medicinal spirits, which threatened
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.