Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 28, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Market
Call money renewal....... money, 80 days.......
Acceptances, 90 days.-.-.t.,
Cammercisd paper...,.--Trancs, cablea ..........
Sterling cables...........
New York bank rate......
.Reserve System ratio......
Coffee, Pdo, December..... ^Copper, delivered.......
■ Cora, December.........
. Cotton, December......... •' Hides, December..........
X>aad, New York........- .
. Oris. December........
Rubber, No. 1 etand’d Dec.
1311k, raw, October......■ •
Silver, New York......  •
Sugar, raw, December..... Tin, December..........
. Wheat. December..........
Wool tops, December....... Zinc, Dast Bi. Douls.. —..
Diary
Wcinesd&y
1933	:	~
41%
44®%% 4i®44%-144®4i%
.O59XH 8.7144 344% 66.4%'
5.93
S
. 3144
1932 8% i©%%
..waist 3.45
' 244% eo.<%
-	7.53
8(4 2S44
10.00	7.34
10.50	6.45
4.00 .	..	3.00
39%	_ 17%
	3.73
. 1.74	1.66
39%	27%
1.50	1.08
46.25'	24.00
91	54%
105.0	«6.8
4.75	-	3.25
■ ■ ■ . .
the Market
vHle on November 11. In both cities, the ballot will be a test of public opinion on the subject, only, as no enabling legislation for municipal operation is provided. -
Officials of the Cincinnati Gas & Electric Co. a unit of the Columbia Gas system, made public a letter, yesterday, urging security holders of the company to oppose a municipal operation vote which had been proposed by some in Cincinnati.
In several small communities, recently, the voters have rejected proposal for either municipal operation or construction of a new plant at the city's expense. The coming votes in Birmingham and Knoxville, however, are more important than the tests of public sentiment in the small communities.
Compensatory Gas Tax, Talked
Coal men feared that higher prices, particularly for bituminous coal, would reduce industrial consumption heavily, due to switching by consumers from coal to oil or natural gas. NRA officials yesterday indicated that they recognized the troubles in which the coal industry might find itself as result of new competition from natural gas. Officials of the Recovery Administration suggested the possibility of a tax on natural gas to restrict competition with coal. ’ The statement from NRA officials undoubtedly will delay action by officials of some companies who have been considering the possibility of a* shift over to natural gas. In New England, coal men have been afraid of increasing competition of oil with coal, but higher oil prices should remove that threat.
. New Labor Troubles Disturbing
New strikes, particularly the walkout of automobile tool and die makers and the one at the Weirton plant of the National Steel Co. in West Virginia, added to the gloomy feeling in Wall Street. The tool and die makers' walkout in Detroit, if it is prolonged for very long, might prove serious for the industry. It has brought to a virtual standstill work on tools and dies, and that might delay production of new models.
' A new outbreak of selling in stocks, concentrated in the industrials, sent the list downward yesterday morning. In the afternoon prices recovered from their inside figures, but a late sinking spell in the steel shares brought new selling in the list, and the market closed not far from' the lows, with leaders off as much as 4 points. New labor troubles, particularly the walkouts in Detroit and in the Weirton steel plant, helped to unsettle the list.
Commodity price fluctuations played an important part in stock movements. Early weakness.in wheat touched off the decline in stocks, and the short-lived recovery in the list was due, in large part, to the recuperative power shown by grains.
Carloadings reports turned in by the two major eastern trunk lines, the Pennsylvania and the New York Central, didn’t inspire much enthusiasm for the carrier stocks. Loadings of both roads fell under the totals of the previous week, contrary to the usual seasonal trend. Electric output figures, for the September 23 week, showed a lessening of the'percentage gain over the like 1932 week- Mid-week steel trade reviews put steel operations very close to the level of the previous week. . Strength in government obligations contrasted with a heavy tone elewhere in the bond market. In the domestic corporation list, industrials were firmer than other grounds. Both high-grade' and second-grade rail bonds were subjected to aditional selling, but losses weren't large in the main boy of the two groups. For-elgn bonds were irregular.	.
After dropping as much as 2 cents a bushel, wheat staged a very strong comeback, and finished % to 1% cents a bushel higher. Advances in other grains were less extensive, but the whole group managed to close above the previous finish. Cotton didn’t suffer as heavily as grains in the early weakness, and closed with losses of only 5 to 12 points.
Markets abroad did little. In both Paris and London, prices were steady.
Capital Stock Tax Payments Due
Corporations which haven’t paid the government capital stock tax, and most of them haven’t, must make their payments by Friday. The tax is one of those imposed as a reemployment and relief levy at the last session of Congress, and requires payment of $1 per $1,000 of the. adjusted declared value of'a corporation’s capital.stock. The declared value is as of the end of the fiscal year ended June 30, 1933, and the tax is for that fiscal year. Payment of the tax will have an effect on third quarter earnings reports of corporations.
Corporations are in a difficult position in fixing a declared value for their capital stock, for the 5% excess profits tax, another levy imposed _ at the last session, enters into their calculations, stocks made new lows, for the year 1933. The latter provides for a payment of 5% on all net income in excess of 12%% on the declared value of the capital stock. If a corporation puts too low a declared value on its capital stock, the excess profits tax will move up accordingly.
Payments ’	'
until next 1933.
If the this year, corporations won’t be called on to pay the excess profits tax again. However, whether the amendment is repealed, they are to be called on to make another capital stock tax payment covering the fiscal year ended June 30, 1934.
Good Upturn in Water Works Earnings
The earnings report of American Water Works, which made its appearance yesterday, fully reflected the betterment in output. Net income, for the 12 months ended August, was pushed up to $1.31 a share on the common, compared with $1.20 a share for the 12 months ended July. September, too, has been a good month for Water Works. In August the company's net income after taxes was 13% ahead ot August, 1933.''
Neither such reports as that turned in by Water Works or Public Service of New Jersey for August have been sufflciexit- to arouse the utilities group. Students of the utility situation now are showing keen interest in approaching “municipal operation" elections in important cities. Voters will go to the polls in Birmingham on October: 9, to ballot on the question, and a similar vote will be taken in Knox-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Industrials Major Sufferer*
Only the utility stocks showed signs of resisting the downward trend in stock prices yesterday. While the utility average was off fractionally at the close, changes in most utility leaders were unimportant. It was in the industrial stocks list that the biggest damage was done. The Dow-Jones average of 30 industrials closed at 93.18, less than 5 points above the July 22 closing figure, the low on the late July break. The railroad group again suffered. The rail average now is more than 3 points through the low of July 22.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest	'
are not duplicated. .
report, and
on the excess profits tax aren’t due March, and are for the calendar year
Eighteenth. Amendment is repealed
ncreased earnings.........
Decreased earnings .....,. Unchanged dividends ...... Decreased dividends........
' ncreased dividends.......
Deferred dividends ........
Omitted dividends..........
High and Low
Since
Julyl
408
308
756 .	14
74 ,	4
. 8
Additions yesterday 1 :1. .
13 1 1 1
■ •
_	Prices
Wednesday, on the New York change, two stocks made new highs and two
Stock Ex-
:	New Highs
Van Kaalte pf	Vulcan Det pf
New Lows
reoplci Gat..	USTobncco pf.
9
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.