Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 21, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Market
Diary •
Call money renewal........
Time money, 90 days.......
Acceptances. 90 days......
Commercial paper......... Francs, cables.......
Sterling cables.........
New York bank rate....... Reserve System ratio......
Coffee. Rio. December.....
Copper, delivered.........
Corn. December.......
Cotton, December
Hides. December...........
jUead, New York.......
Oats. December............
Rubber. No. 1 stand*d Dec. Silk, raw, October........
Silver. New York..........
Sugar, raw, December......
Tin December............
Wheat. December ........
Wool tope, December... *.. EInc, Hast St. Louis......
Friday	
1933	1932
%%	1%
%©>%%	%ei%
	%<&>%%
in	l%tff%%
.0546%	.0393%
4.52	3.39%
2%	2%%
<15.5% •	61.3%
5.44	6.42
7%	5%
42%	25%
9.22	6.19
8.15	5 00
4.00	3 00'S 3 05
32	15%
7.22	3.3S
1.43	1.53
36%	27
1.11	1.07
45.25	23.10
81%	4R%
99 2	53.8
4.75	3 00^3 05
Rumors of tile possibility of important nearterm developments, Including recognition of Soviet Russia, and a handful of encouraging items on the domestic business situation were enough to bring about a technical rally m stocks after early weakness yesterday.
Buoyed by a better loadings report than anticipated, railroad shares led the advance. A spirited uprush in grains, which rallied the limit permitted for one day’s trading after early heaviness, sent industrial stocks on an upward rush.
After a robust mark-up in prices, during which some issues pushed ahead as much as 5 points from their early lows, the market turned quiet. Most of the gains were well TYin.intfi.inpd, with advances amounting to from 1 to S points.
While no definite word was forthcoming, news from 'Wa^hi-ngton indicated that recognition of Soviet Russia was a near term possibility. The fawn equipment and electrical manufacturing company shares were among the fastest movers in the uprush. Alcohol stocks were quick to turn up when the whole list firmed. The support accorded the railroad stocks on the early heaviness, however, was a prime factor in bringing buying into the entire market. The loadings report showed that traffic in the week ended October 14 constituted a larger percentage of the 15-year average than in the previous week, a good sign. New York Central, Great Northern. Union Pacific and Atchison were firm spots in the rail group.
An afternoon rally in the bond market cancelled some of the declines in the forepart of the session. TJtflity bonds of the best calibre held up well throughout the session, and rail issues were relatively steady. Governments were a shade lower. Neither the announcement of a reduction in the bank rate, nor the suspension of purchases of government securities by the Federal Reserve, had any important effects on the securities markets.
Wheat maintained much of the upswing. Prices, at the close, were up 21? to 4V» cents a bushel. Corn and other coarse grains advanced, but the upturns there were not as pronounced as in the major cereal. Cotton at one time showed a gain of 31.25 a bale, but it slipped back and maintained only about half the maximum advance.
Foreign markets were mixed. Prices eased a trifle in London, while the list was steady to higher in Paris. In the foreign exchange market, weakness in French francs was the feature.
Farmers Restless Despite Improvement
Agitation which has broken out again in the farm belt isn’t based on figures, which show a distinct improvement m the farmers’ position compared with a year ago, but on the farmers’ restlessness over the failure of the Washington program to do what enthusiastic supporters had hoped it would accomplish more quickly. After years of poor times, even when other sections of the country were prosperous, the farmer wants quick improvement, not slow betterment.
Compared with a year ago. figures prove conclusively that the farmers* position is materially improved. At mid-August, in spite of a slump from July, the index of farm purchasing power was at 72, compared with 59 a year previous. In September, 1932, his purchasing power was only 56% of the pre-war level.
Agricultural unrest was largely responsible for the form the Administration’s program for recovery took. The renewed threat of a farmers’ strike, the embargo on wheat put into effect by the Governor of North Datoka, and the outbreak against the NRA, assuming serious proportions in the farm belt, prove that while the
farmer is better off than he was a year ago, he la dissatisfied.
Carloadings Surprisingly Good
The carloadings report for the week ended October 14 proved surprisingly good. Not only did traffic move up above the total for the previous week, but the total was 14,368 cars ahead of the like week of 1932, the peak level for last year. Some in the financial community had hay.fiyricd the opinion that loadings would be under the total for the corresponding 1932 week.
The upturn over the previous week was due entirely to an expansion in coal shipments, following a cessation of labor difficulties. Merchandise and less than carload lot freight shipments, which reflect the level of general industry, were only a little under the previous week, and both were well ahead of the corresponding week of 1932.
’ Some of the cheering effects of the loadings report were offset by the gross revenues report of the Southern Railway for the second week In October. For the first time since late April, gross was down under the like week of 1932. Southern*^ earnings report, however, hardly is a fair criterion of the business being done by the railroads of the country as a whole.
Railroad stocks now are back to the range of prices prevailing between late September, and mid-November, 1932. The vast majority of railroads are much, better off at this time than they were a year ago. Prospects for the last two months of the y$ar, based on shippers estimates, are better than for November and December, 1932, and the outlook for the first quarter of next year is not discouraging.
Short Selling Still Negligible
■While a few traders took to the short side on the break through of the industrials below the July lows, operations by shorts are a negligible factor in the market. Important traders, who were on the short side most of the time during the long “bear market”, have been bullish on stocks for some time. Loaning rates show very clearly that there is no important short interest in stocks now. Not a single stock is commanding a premium for loaning purposes.
Chrysler Report Bolsters Stock
Chrysler’s report for the third quarter, showing net equal to $1.67 a share on 4,305,209 shares of capital stock, helped to make the stock one of the leaders in the rebound staged by the market yesterday. While business volume was ahead of the total for the previous three months, the company explained that additional costs, due largely to compliance with the NRA code, had brought net income down to below the total for the previous three months.
Chrysler has been making substantial charges against income this year for reserves for contingencies. In the first nine months, these reserves were increased by $5,040,000 over the total at the end of 1932. That amount is equal to $1.17 a share on Chrysler stock.
While the company never has made a statement concerning them, these additions to contingency reserves apparently are to take care of such losses as may occur through deposits in banks now closed. These deposits, at the of the past quarter, amounted only to $4,985,730, and the increase in reserves this year has already exceeded that amount. It is hardly likely that the company will get no return from deposits in closed banks, and quite possible it will get 50% of the sums deposited, or more.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Increased earnings........
Decreased earnings........
Unchanged dividends ...... Resximed dividends ........ Decreased dividends.......
Increased dividends.......
Omitted dividends ........ Initial dividends..........
Since	Additions
Oct. 1	yesterday
107	S
42	7
116	11
o
7	.
1	.
1	1
High and Low Prices
Fuday, on the New York Stock Exchange, •one stock made a new high and ten stocks made new lows, for the year 1933.
New High
Atlna Tnck...
New Lows
Am Homi> Fr [ Gotham 8 Ho I Tbompaon. JB
< ol PnolAl pf Life buvrr».,. I nltc<l Dr tig.. Edc P 8 6%pf FadUo GaitE Vick Chemical Genrrul Cigar I	|
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.