MARKET DROPS LATE IN WEEK: MO. P. NEWS FIRST, EITHER GOOD OR BAD, TO ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 3, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Market drops
LATE IN WEEK
Mo. P. News First, Either Good
or Bad, to Shock Trade Out
of Recent Lethargy
I The Week Reviewed |
week's Active Stocks
Sales Stocks
130600 Adams Express
56800 Ail’d Chemical. 118700 Amer Tel &. Tel 104800 Case. JI ......
64400 Comm Solvents
90700 Gen Motors . . .
80700 N Y Central...
61800 United Corp...
64300 V S Steel......
47600 Atchison ......
HiRh	Low	Last Chgs.	
4%	3%	3%—	1
78%	74’4	75% —	2%
92%	87 %	88%-—	4
47%	43%	44%—	1>-
13’4	11%	13	—	%
12’.,	11%	11% —	%
19%	15%	16% —	3%
e%	4%	5 % —	Ts
29 %	26%	27% —	1
44%	38%	39% —	4%
L>ay-by-day news developments shaped the course of the securities markets during" the past week, and bid fair to continue to do so until the full details rrf the Administration’s program in regard to regulation of the securities markets and handling the railroad problem are known, or until the trend of business becomes more clear.
The long-awaited news that the Missouri Pacific had moved to reorganize its capital structure, under the provisions of the Bankruptcy Bill, shook the market Jate m the work out of the narrow trading rut in which it had swung idly back and forth for several days. Heavy selling of the railroad shares followed hard on the heels of the announcement, and brought about a sizable decline in the entire list. Previous to tbis onslaught, the stork market had shown itself to be almost impervious to news good or bad.
The extent of the setback was surprising The Missouri Pacific's difficulties have boon common knowledge for more than a year, and it has been stated repeatedly that reorganization for this road and for the other roads in similar shape would be more constructive than otherwise. Such reorganizations represent the clearing away of the deadwood of the past, and putting the properties in position to operate on a sound basis The process is painful, but in the long run it will be better for all concerned than continuing to have poverty stricken roads pile up debt by borrowing from the government. That pioccss has only postponed the evil day.
Interest Keen In Roosevelt Program
One phase of the Administration’s securities regulation piogram already is before Congic^.s. The financial community, gcnerallv, was not troubled by its terms, for in the mam it provides only for wider publicity on securities There can be no real objection to such publicity. The other sections of the Administration program covering securities markets are awaited with the keenest interest. The fact that they are in the offing has tempered interest in stocks.
Business is recovering from the effects of the banking holiday, according to news from various centers. Business news, in general, has been better than the action of the market would indicate. The market has failed to respond to it because of the various sore spots in the financial picture which must be cleared up.
Steel Kate Continue** Low
The steel business continued to reflect the crippled «st«Te of trndo »r» th* M»dweM. where some difficulty has been experienced In throwing off the effects of the recent banking shutdowns Operations of the steel industry continued at around 24 to l.Vr of capacity.
A feature of the steel mmket has been the strength in scrap with heavy melting advancing again 25 cents a ton to 89 25 a ton. Pittsburgh. Pig iron markets also have been firmer. While no price advances have been noted m the latter, there has been some gone buying reccntlv and a price advance may develop in a week or 10 days in some centers
Finished steel products continue to meet with
•	a limited demand. Miscellaneous buvers are i not entering the maiket with the vigor which , was expected immediately after the banking 1 crisis parsed The trade is still hopeful, however, for April norma’iy is a good month for
I this type of business and the approach of warmer weather may help to stimulate it. Automobile sales have picked up moderately and there is still a possibility that oiders from this important consumer may bring about improvement in the steel business. Railroads are not expected to be in the market in any important ; way for another month at least.
!	Money Market*. Steady
. The New Yoik mon«\v market*, had then fust 1 completely calm week since February Al-| though the undertone of the market was soft, | rates generally held unchanged throughout the
*	period. Bill rates remained at 2'h'f6i2'r for
short maturities, although some dealers were bidding	below the market for very special
names. Call money remained at 3r^ on the Stock Exchange, but the outside rate went as low as 2', by the end of the week, while call money on bills and treasuries was lending for
Time money was offered at 2', for short maturities and 2»a't for long Commercial paper uas quiet and steady at 3'< .
I The rate for federal funds gave a better inI dication of the credit trend The rate declined 'gradually from 2’2rr a week ago to	on
Thursday as banks repaid their borrowings to the Reserve Bank. On Friday, however, conditions were a little firmer as a result of month-end needs. While banks still were able to obtain funds at	or	discount houses were
willing to pay considerably more for month-end accommodations.
Apparently, money rates arc not going to get much lower until the restrictions on gold exporta are lifted. There is every reason to believe that the rediscount rate of the New York bank, which more or less determines the level of money rates, will not be reduced until after the restrictions arc raised, in order to have the safeguard of fairly attractive money rates when foreign nations are allowed to withdraw their funds in gold
Rule Dec I Ini’s Retarded
The Reserve System has been retiring credit somewhat faster than discounts are being repaid, or, in other words, is slowing up the process of repayment, apparently with the idea of keeping money rates from falling too rapidly. In the week ended Wednesday. 5190.000.000 of credit was retired, including 526.000,000 tn the form of government security holdings and 542.-
000.000 in bill holdings, while only 5126,000,000 in discounts were repaid
At the same time, 5255 000,000 of currency came back to the Reserve Banks, and gold reserves of the system increased 544.000,000. Member banks balances were 569.000.000 higher. Money in circulation is now 51.185.000 000 below the peak of $7,538,000,000 of March 8, while gold reserves have risen $553,000,000 since then
Foreign Exchange Featureless
The foreign exchange market was featureless practically throughout the ent.re week Rates drifted m meaningless fluctuations, and the net changes were small. In the middle of the week, some firmness appeared in sterling in response to the approach of the month-end, but the rate gave ground at the close. The goic! Continentals worked in opposition to sterling lor the most part, although at the close French francs gave way slightly while guilders advanced sharply and Swiss francs were stronger Sterling futuics were firm in the middle of the week, but by the end were beginning to shade off.
German marks were under influence of developments in Berlin. The Berlin Boersc gave an unsatisfactory performance throughout the v. eek, as business reports continued to be unfavorable and withdrawals were reported from the banks. The anti-Semctic propaganda and the possibilities of international repercussions had a dampening effect upon mark exchange, but on Friday the mark rallied on the announcement that the boycott on German Jews would be limited to one day only.
The £15,000,000 increase in the British fiduciary issue was cancelled March 31. bringing the figure back to the £260.000 000 level obtaining prior to August. 1931. This action was made possible by the large increase in the gold holdings of the Bank of England, which have brought the reserves erf the institution to the highest levels of history. It marks official determination to avoid anything which smacks of note inflation.
Wheat Moves Higher
Although Chicago wheat failed to hold a mid-week advance that carried the May delivery to 54 cents, the general trend for the week was upward. Heavy buying orders were executed fur Eastern interests, and enthusiasm persisted in many quarters of Lhe grain trade, in the face of uncertainty over the final outcome at Washington on the farm relief bill.
Saturday morning May wheat again touched 54 «a„ and closed at 54 as against the previous weeks final quotation of 52cents.
Flaying a part in the sentiment favoring the market was a market belief in the possibility of price inflation for commodities to result from a lowered purchasing power for the dollar, a strong nulling demand for cash wheat, and reports of damage to winter wheat as disclosed by growing weather conditions.
E.	H. Miller, of James E Bennett & Co, pct the indicated production of winter wheat at only 355,000.000 bushels, much less than had been generally expected This forecast compares with 462,000,000 harvested in 1932 and w’ith a 5-yenr average harvest in 1932 and with a 5-ycar average harvest—1926-1930— of 589,-OQO.OOO bushels.
Cotton Swings Erratically
Cotton futures moved in erratic fashion over a range of 51.50 a bale. Periods of comparative quiet alternated with nervous and excited trading. The market became unusually susceptible to moderate operations from outside interests in the form of either buying or selling, this being accounted for by the waiting attitude assumed by the cotton trade proper here and abroad in view of the farm relief legislation pending at Washington.
A large Wall Street house made October purchases Tuesday and Wednesday which totaled about 30,000 bales. Gossip credited various sources and motives for these purchases, and in some quarters they were described as •’mystery" buying The latest version was that the buying came from a prominent tire manufacturer seeking to protect himself against price inflation that might result from changes in the currency and credit situation.
This buying was the main cause of a price run-up of $1.50 a bale from the weeks lows, but sales from the South and hedge selling were attracted by the advance. Toward the close of the week the market receded below the price prevailing at the end of the previous week.
v
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.