Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 31, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 15
Market
Diary
Call money renewal....... Tima money, 90 d&yv...... .Acceptance*, 90 day*...... Commercial paper.......... Hew York. bank. raxe...... Reserve System ratio...... Francs, cables...........
Sterling cables..........
Coffee. Rio. December..... Copper, delivered.......
Corn. December...........
Cotton. December.........
Hides. December............
Lead, New York.......... Oats. December.............
Rubber, No. X st&nd'd Dec. Silk, raw, December......
Sliver, New York.........
Sugar, raw. December..... Tin, December..............
Wheat, December............
Wool tops. December.........
Zinc, East St. Louis.....
Monday	
1933	3932
%%	1%
%«%%	% © % %
%$►%%	%©%%
	1%©%%
3%	2%%
65.5%	63.5%
.0386%	.0392%
4.75%	3.28%
5 82	6.3S
8%	5%G>%
45%	24%
9.51	6- 0®
9.11	4.90
4.30	3.00
34%	X5%
7.82	3.46
1.51	3.44
39%	26%
1.30	-	0.98
48.45	22.70
38%	44%
101.0	52.5
4.75	3.00
The Administration's announcement that It had decided to .operate in the world gold market in its effort to manipulate the value of the dollar, the major item on the week-end news calendar, gave a temporary fillip to the security and commodity markets in the first session of the new week, but prices turned sharply downward late m the day and, with stocks being pressed for sale, the market gave way all along the line. With the stock ticker lagging around three minutes behind, active issues dropped sharply, losses running up to more than 5 points in some of the fast-moving performers.
After the spurt at the opening, when stocks showed sizeable gains, the market quieted and turned very dull until the start of the last hour. Stocks gave way quite easily in the reaction. On trading involving only ,700 Bhares, American Telephone dropped from 115% to 114. and similarly swift declines were in evidence elsewhere. New York Central, among the rails, was a heavy spot; Steel common fell from above 3S to below 37 in an abrupt downswing, and in stocks like National Distillers, U. S. Industrial Alcohol, American Smelting & Refining a-nd j. I. Case abrupt losses were chalked up. Even the gold stocks, which were the strong performers early in the day, faded with the rest of the list. Tobaccos were heavy throughout the session.
The new domestic price for gold of $31.96 was the highest so far posted and represented an advance of 14 cents over the Saturday level. Wall Street was in two minds about the move to operate in world gold markets, and it acted as only a minor spur on stocks. Business news was rather drab, particularly the week-end reports from the steel centers, which showed that operations were staging a rapid descent. After the close, the Steel Institute’s operations figures appeared, showing the industry’s rate was down to 26.1%, off 5% from the previous week.
The domestic corporation bond list was reactionary, prices drooping all along the line. High-grade corporate issues were the heaviest. United States obligations were soft, too, while foreign gold issues rose. The dollar was weak in the foreign exchange market, speculators driving it down on word of the Government’s plans.
Wheat traveled over a range of about 3 cents a bushel. Higher at the opening, the major cereal met substantial selling and gave ground fairly easily, closing unchanged to off 1% cents a bushel. The close was about % of a cent a bushel above the low’s. Coarse grains were heavy, too, and cotton, which showed an advance of around $1 a bale early in the day, lost all its gain.
Prices for South African mining company shares rose sharply in London on the prospects of higher prices for gold. Industrial and utility stocks were higher, too. In Paris, prices on the bourse rose.
Distillers to Pay Parity Prices
In agreeing to market their wares under the Agricultural Adjustment Administration, distilling companies pledged themselves to pay “parity” prices for commodities used in making spirits. In general, parity prices have been regarded as the 1909-1914 average for staples, but more recently, the Administration has suggested that the 1926 price level’might be considered as the “parity” price level. On the basis of the former, distillers would pay around 64 cents for corn and 72 cents a bushel for rye. If they are called on to meet the 1926 price level, they would have to pay 76 cents a bushel for corn and 96 cents lor rye.
Higher prices for these two major ingredients of spirits mean some rise in costs of distilling companies, but fl the 1909-1914 level is the one finally decided on, it would not mean any radical increase over estimates which already have appeared. Even at 76-cent corn, the cost of making alcohol wouldn’t be stepped up very drastically Distillers get 22£ gallons of pure alcohol from a bushel of corn, equivalent to five gallons of whisky. Most estimates of costs have been made on the basis of 60-ceDt corn, and a four-cent advance in price above that would mean an increase of less than 1 cent a gallon in whisky costs. On a 76-cent price for corn, costs would be raised a little more than 3 cents a gallon, not of much moment in selling whisky.
Steel Outlook Mixed
The steel outlook, at the present time, is extremely discouraging. With operations working downward, there is very little in the outlook to indicate that operations won’t drop to around 20% of capacity. The sole ray of hope in the outlook is the possibility that, by some compromise, the railroad coordinator and the rail makers will get together, and the rail tonnage will be 1ft.
Normally, rail makers wouldn’t roll all the rail contracted for in a brief period, but would roll it gradually, as contracts were specified against. However, under the steel industry code, none of the companies complying with it can make a contract “by the terms of which the shipments of such products Is not required to be completed before the end of the calendar quarter year ending not more than four months after the date of making such contract.” In other words, if the code provision holds, deliveries would have to be complete by March 81, 1934. Thus, if the contracts for rail were let by December 1, the rail mills of the country would be operating at near capacity up until March 31, 1934. Annual capacity of the rail mills is estimated at around 3,300,000 tons, and they would have to turn out 884,000 tons, if they get the full order from the coordinator, in four months. Near capacity operations of the rail mills would lift the total rate for the industry somewhat.
Markets Doll on Gold Move
Decision in Washington to initiate operations in gold in the world market didn’t inspire the markets yesterday. Apparently, speculators adopted a “wait and see” attitude temporarily. The tendency of the dollar to bold steady in the exchange markets, and move ahead against some foreign currencies In the latter half of lost week had Indicated quite clearly that, if the Administration carries out its attempt to raise
commodity prices, and lower the value of the dollar, it would have to turn to activity in foreign gold markets. The inflationary spur, given by purchases of gold at mounting prices in the domestic market, lasted only a few dayq.
Some sections of the financial community were much disturbed by the new step. An effort to work in the foreign market to force the dollar down further, it was contended, would bring retaliation from foreign countries, and might bring a race to depreciate currencies all around, with serious effects on world trade. Uncertainty over the future value of the American -monetary unit, in both the foreign and domestic market, is going to make business men loathe to make contracts, it was insisted.
The speed with which, the Administration turned from marking up the domestic price of gold to a decision to operate in foreign gold markets testified to the fact that the President's remarks* on raising commodity prices, one way or another, were being translated into action. The question uppermost in the Wall Street mind was what course would be pursued if the new move didn't work.
Rockefeller Foundation Bought Central
The Rockefeller Foundation's report for 1932 testified, somewhat belatedly, to the fact that the Delaware & Hudson Co. wasn't the only heavy and Important buyer of Central when it tumbled under 25 in 1932. The Rockefeller Foundation purchased 52,635 shares of the stock at an average price of 19%. In buying the stock for the D. & H., Leonor F. Loree paid an average of 22% for 495,000 shares.
At the year’s high of 58%, the Foundation had a paper profit of $2,052,765 in Central, which has been cut to $500,000 at current prices. Even that is a fairly respectable paper appreciation on the basis of an investment of only $1,006,644. The Foundation has1 an even larger paper profit through its purchases of Standard Oil of California when the stock was selling at around 17.
The D. & H. Co.’s paper profits in Central, which were up in eight figures when Central was at the year’s high, are back in seven figures now. At current quotations, the profit runs to around $2,970,000, an appreciation of about 25% on the investment of $11,065,350.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with, those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and
are not duplicated.		
Increased earnings ...,	Since Oct. 1 	 235	Additions yesterday 12
Decreased earnings ....		 93	7
Unchanged dividends .		 168	4
Resumed dividends ....		 10	1
Decreased dividends ..		 3	
Increased dividends ..	.. 11 -	*
Omitted dividends . .. .		 2	
Initial dividends 			 4	a .
High and	Low Prices	
, Monday, on the New York Stock Exchange, four stocks (General Italian Edison, National Lead, Van Raalte pfd. sta., and Wm. Wrigley) made new highs, and four stocks (.Brooklyn ! Union Gas, Exchange Buffet, Roan Antelope, j and Southern California Edison) made new lows, for the year 1933.'
“Purely Gossip”—
There is a growing feeling of pessimism in the Street toward business as a whole and this was reflected in a sharp decline in the general market. Undoubtedly there are a lot of weak shares overhanging the market and any exhibition of strength such as was shown at the opening Monday will bring selling from this source.
The Street was particularly depressed with the conditions in the steel industry as represen-ing the country’s business; this brought some investment selling in various groups of shares.
There is more of muddled sentiment in the Street at the moment than at any time in months and conservative opinion in the Street refuses to venture an opinion on the immediate future of the market.
Undoubtedly there are a number of accounts in the Street which have been carrying a long line of shares bought in August-September which are potential sellers and the line of stop orders has been augmented considerably as a result.
• • *
Europe has been buying shai'es in our communications companies m the last six months, according to some London brokers. American Telephone & Telegraph, Radio Corp., Western Union and International Telephone & Telegraph are among companies* securities which have been purchased both in England and on the Continent. There is a disposition on the part of the postal authorities in Great Britain to speed up use of the telephone, particularly the long distance department, and it is understood that some large contracts will be let next year to provide for additional circuits, particularly to develop rapid long distance service such as is enjoyed between New York and Boston, Philadelphia and other adjacent points. This will mean that several American manufacturing companies operating in Europe will materially benefit.
• • •
In spite of the decline in railroad shares, a lazge total of those shares accumulated by some big investors at considerably lower prices than now obtaining are held intact. This is particularly the case with Union Pacific. One important holder of these shares bought on an average 7,500 shares at 35 over a year ago and he still has this block of stock.
...
Department stores’ business in New York has been quite diappointing following the brief upturn in September. There is apparently a good deal of quiet consumer resistance to the higher scale of prices.
...
Options of whiskies in Scotland for American deliveries are being signed thick and fast und large sums are being put up to clinch such deals. One whisky concern outside of the trust has already contracted to deliver two-thirds of its aged whisky to American concerns over the next three years. It is not selling any more for fear its aged whisky will be exhausted so that the company would actually be unable to place any whisky on the market for several years and thus lose its goodwill particularly in Great Britain. The old Scotch is to be us;d by American firms for blending purposes. Many of the contracts coll for the liquor in bulk rather than bottles.
• • *
English <t"d German sound picture interests intend to make a strong bid for the American and South American film markets in the next year, and are preparing pictures which they feel will compete strongly with the best Holly
wood can produce. It is notable that London and German theatres, which up to a couple of years ago rarely showed anything but American talkies, now are showing as high as 75% films of their own productions.
. ...
Brokers say some western selling, came into the market after the strong opening.
•	« w
Packing interests are said to be confused over the immediate outlook and that much of their bullishness has been dissipated particularly in regard to the hog markets.
...
There has been foreign buying of Patino Mines right through the current markets, and it is notable that this stock has been one of those which had held well in the last month.
—Broad Street Gossit
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.