Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 2, 1933; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 15
o f the Market
_	„	- market Diary	.		
J	'	_	-	. Tuesday	■	
	1933	1933
call		
Time manor, *0 <lays;	settee. '	
-Aneepteneee, W d*y»......		**«•%*£
	ec.	39%%
.. ... Yimum			-	’		,0301 s:
BterUns cables.......	X. 43 V.	3.51%
' New Tork b*j?k rots......'		2%% .
Meearve System raUo.....*	es.4%.	58.1%
Coffee. Bio, September... ••	’	5.74	6.45
Copper, deUvered..........		5%
Coro, September...^.....,.	53%	SOU
Cotton,' * October,...;......	10.50	5.89
Lum, • September,.....;,..	*	12.95	4.90 r
need, Hew Vortc..........	4.50	3.95
-Oex». September...........	39	17
nubbec. No. 1 etand'd Sept.	7.55	3.15
810c. iuw, "October..			1.86	1.35 -
BUrer, New Yoric...	...	35%	37
Baser, row, September....	1.38	2.02
Tin. September			43.40	21.30
Wheat, September		97 U	49
Wool tops. September....	94.00	48.50
■Zinc, Kstt fit. ixauis		-5.00	2.75
A return of -strength, to the commodities markets -roused the securities market in the last" hour ot trading from the state of midsummer- lassitude which ruled it for the first four hours yesterday. Farm implement shares' responded to tbe sharp rim-up in wheat, and the alcohol stocks found new backers. The main body ot stocks was dull, but prices were up from 1 to 6 points. Transactions for the first four.hours were down to 1,210,000 shares, but volume moved up in the late rally, reaching 1,780,000 shares for the day, the smallest day since April 27».
uncertainties over how extensively tne Blanket code, and Industrial codes, under the National Industrial Recovery Act would affect corporate profits over the immediate future, furnished a basis for heal toney in regard to making commitments in equities. Numerous corporations announced that they were taking on additional employes,, meeting the requirements of codes. While the ultimate effect of this new purchasing power should be to raise business volume, the financial community foresaw, for the near term at least, some diminution in profits for various companies.
News on the state of general industry was quite favorable in tenor. The Dow-Jones estimate put steel operations at 55% of capacity, off 1%, with IT. S. Steel a shade higher but the Independents slipping off. The lull in business is also -making itself felt in reduced railroad traffic. The decline, however, is as yet only minor.	_
Overnight announcement that minimum prices had been restored in the Chicago wheat pit brought a rousing rally in grains. Practically all grains moved up the limit allowed under the "Board of Trade rules controlling daily fluctuations in the first half hour of trading. Trading came to a standstill when grain reached the limits. Wheat closed in Chicago up 5 cents a bushel, and other grains were up 3 to 4 cents. In Winnipeg, where there are no restraints on daily fluctuations, wheat closed up around 9 cents a bushel. All the crop was bullish on prices. Cotton ran up, too, moving ahead around $1.50 to $2 a bale.
After early heaviness, bonds staged a recovery and were about'Unchanged from tbe previous finish. Announcement that interests on Colorado Fuel & Iron 5s would not be met brought a break in this issue, paralleling the. slump in the stock. Generally sppaking, however, changes in bonds were small. Government obligations were firm. British issues sagged off, influenced by the decline in sterling against the dollar. The dollar was strong against all foreign exchanges.
Twining Up th© Liquor Interests
With repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment a good deal more than a mirage on the horizon of the thirsty, the companies which should play
a sizable role -In the' liquor qraslness are lining-up 'in	groups. The latest development
in this gradual process the announ cwn ent ftom th*-	Maryland Corp-, Jointly owned
by -National Distillers and. U. S. Industrial Alcohol* that it had signed a -contract to handle the output of the 'Fleischmann distilling plant of Standard Brands.	-	- :
- Standard Brands is the fourth company with securities on the New York Stock Exchange in this fairly closely knit group. National Distillers’ is the old line whisky company in;''the outfit, while IT. S. Industrial*'Alcohol has potentialities in the gin and whisky blending field. They are tied up through the Fenn Maryland Corp- While there is no direct link between Owens-minois Glass and National Distillers, officials of Owens-Illinois Glass have a stock interest in National Distillers. It is pretty logical to assume thufr the glass company will be the bottle maker for the group.
The other important aggregation of companies includes Commercial Solvents, which recently acquired grain alcohol plants of the Rossville Alcohol Co. and Hiram Walker, the big Canadian whisky \distillers, who plan to erect a plant in Feoria, HI., where Commercial Solvents has its main plant.
Minimum Rule Bolsters Grains
The Board of Trade stiffened grain prices Immediately by tbe overnight announcement that minimum prices were again in effect in the Chicago grain markets. Wheat opened strong and went to the maximum prices permitted under the rules within, a few minutes after the start. Traders, who had been unloading for two days, took heart and held on to commitments, due to the announcement that the minimum levels would be in effect for at least two weeks. On Monday, news from the belt detailing the damage caused by the searing weather, aroused no constructive Interest; yesterday, . grain interests paid a lot more - attention - to the bullish crop news.
One effect the imposition of maximum and minimum prices in Chicago is having is to make greater activity in the Winnipeg market, where daily fluctuations aren't limited. Yesterday, some speculators were buyers in Winnipeg after .grains went up to the limits in Chicago. Another effect, felt Monday and again yesterday, was that when grains reached either the maximum or minimum prices, trading came to a standstill.
Chrysler and General Motors Contrasts
With Chrysler’s quarterly report in, statisticians had the usual quarterly field day comparing the results of the two major units in the motor industry. One striking point of contrast between General Motors and Chrysler was the -disparity in the profit margin on gross sales volume. While Motors' margin was 21.5% in the second quarter, the margin for Chrysler was only 9.5%.
Chrysler's volume of roughly $81,700,000 in the second quarter was about 45% of the business done by General Motors in the period. Chrysler's per share net for the quarter was just double that of General Motors, but Chrysler has only 4,315,076 shares of stock outstanding, while Motors had 43,014,409 shares of .common, in addition to its preferred stock.
Chrysler's balance sheet as of June 30 showed that reopenings of closed banks had helped the corporation a little. Funds in closed institutions were down to $5,102,000, off about $1,418,000 from tbe end of the previous quarter. General Motors has about $13,800,000 in closed banks, at the end of the quarter.
Waiting on the Lawyers	s
Partners in brokerage houses spent some of their idle moments yesterday discussing what
action to talwuoder the blanket code. A number decided that"the beet line to pursue wi&to wait for a definite	from the counsel for
the Association <of-Stock Exchange Firms. Lawyers for the organization, have been working on thetaatter. ‘'
- - Some firms figured that they were under the “blanket” already. As far as hours of work go, that Is true of all Stock Ftchange firms now, for employes are working on a five-day week and eight-hour-day "basis. Most firms during late May, June and'early July added to their staffs, and the only difficulty now is that, if small trading sessions continue, they will be over-staffed Instead of under-staffed.
- Big Move on. 10 Shares	.
One transaction of IO Shares of “Big Four" common yesterday lifted the value of stock 40% above tbe previous 1933 high. At the price of 140, -the stock was up $50 a share from the year's low of -90. The stock makes only an infrequent appearance on the tape, coming out after long periods' of hibernation at wide changes. Only about 8,000 shares of tbe issue are held by the public, the remainder being owned by the New York Central, which operates the road under its 99-year lease, which guarantees a $10 annual dividend on the “Big Four” common. In MA-roh, 1931, arbitrators selected to decide on the values of - the “Big Four” stock held by the public, decided it was worth $310 a share as of February 1, 1930, the date when the Central lease of the property went into effect. It still has a long way to go to get back to that price.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with tbe previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest	"	’
are not duplicated.
report, and
Since Julyl 224 171 189
6 10
1 _	Prices
Tuesday, on the New York Stock nine stocks made new highs and a
Increased earnings ......
Decreased earnings.......
Unchanged dividends ...... Decreased dividends .....
Increased dividends......
Deferred dividends ......
High and Ix>w
new low, for the year 1933.
Now Highs
Am Bra Sh pf ] Endicott J pf C C C £ Hl L 1 Glidden pr pf Colpnto Pn pf I Int Nickel pf
Additions vesterday ~ 12
9
4
1
Exchange, no stock made
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.