Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 22, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Market
cun money renewal...........
Time money* SO days...... Acceptances, SO d&ys...... Commercial paper...........
Franca* cables........
Sterling cables..........
New York bank rate...... Reserve System ratio.....
Coffee, Rio, December...* Copper, delivered........,
Corn, December..........
Cotton, December..,,,j,..» Hides* December.......xx. Lead, New York...........
OaU, December........... Rubber. No. 1 cUndM Dec. Silk, raw, October........ Silver, New York...........
Sugar* raw, December.... Tin, December.............
Wheat, December.......T. Wool tops, December...... Zinc, Rast fit. Louis....
Diary
Ytmrtdav	
1233	1932
•4%	2%
	
	
	2%
.0607	.0392*
4.78^	3.46%
2%%	2%%
	60.452
6.20	7.30
9	6U
•	50%	29%
9.65	7.49
11.60	6.90
4.50	3.40
'	38**	.	18 %
7.56	3.78
1.78	1.65
39^	37%
1.57	1.07
’	46.50	23.95
,	90 >4	53%
104.7	61.0
4.75	3.25
General discouragement over the performance of stocks, renewed weakness in bonds, and heaviness in the commodities markets brought additional selling into stocks, which swept the market down to new low ground on the reaction in a 3,650,000-share session yesterday. Losses were general throughout the list, and rallies were feeble and of short duration. Declines in the active leaders ran to as much as five points, and in some of the fast movers losses were even heavier," Railroad stocks were subjected to insistent pressure, but in the industrial list selling was even more pronounced. Gold stocks and other metal shares and the alcohol group were the major sufferers.
There was nothing in the day’s grist of news to account for the sharp tumble taken by stocks. Much of the bloom was taken off the inflationary urge to buy stocks by Secretary Wallace’s remarks, and that unquestionably brought about some discouraged selling. The acute weakness of second-grade railroad bonds hurt railroad stocks, naturally, and brought about a general urge to get out of the group. Railroad traffic, however, still is ahead of a year ago, and September wasn’t a bad month for the carriers last year. -Ab far as the industrial list was concerned, there are numerous gloomy predictions going the rounds in regard to the effects of the increased costs of operation under NIRA on pro Its of some industrial companies.
The dollar traveled over a wide range in the foreign exchange market. The price of gold dropped, and the dollar was firmer in the morning, but later in the- session the dollar began to weaken against sterling. It firmed up again, however, and was higher against sterling late in the day. The late weakness in stocks was accompanied by a heavy slump in wheat, which dropped the limit permitted under the Board of Trade restrictions.	'
High grade bonds were a little better in the bond market, but the rest of the domestic corporation list offered nc comfort to those who were optimistic on the course of prices. Losses were chalked up all along the line, and trading volume picked up sharply as prices eased.
The closing stages of trading in grains saw the bulls in full flight. Wheat dropped 5 cents a bushel, and closed at the bottom. Other grains dropped the limit, and finished there.
Heaviness prevailed on the Faris Bourse, with all groups declining. In London, the market was Irregularly lower.
Cotton futures broke for losses of $2 to 52.50 a. bale in the late dealings. Liquidation by cotton interests abroad and by speculative interests in this country, rather than unusually heavy sales from the South, accounted for the setback in cotton.
Hope for the Utilities
One hopeful sign for the utility companies comes from Philip Lieber, president of the United States League of Building and Loan Associations. Mr. Lieber declares that reemployinent win enable 1,000,000 families to leave the homes of relatives and set up their own homes, within a year. If Mr. Lieber’s prognostication proves correct, the change would mean a substantial pick-up in domestic business for utility companies. The “doubling up” process was one of the important factors in cutting down utility companies’ domestic load.
Wheeling Payment Boon to R. F. C.
The $7 dividend declared Wednesday on the Wheeling & Lake Erie prior lien stock just about covers full interest requirements on the 515,100,000 loan which the Reconstruction Finance Corp, has made to the Nickel Plate, which controls W. & L. E. . As security for the loan,
115,193 shares of Wheeling prior lien stock are pledged with the Reconstruction Finance Corp. The dividend voted by the Wheeling means a total payment , of 5806,351 on the shares held by the Reconstruction Finance Corp, as loan collateral. The full amount of the loan to the Nickel Plate hasn't been outstanding for an entire year, and the single dividend is just about sufficient to cover the interest required.
At the time it was made, the R.F.C.’s Joan to the Nickel Plate was looked on with a good deal of mistrust in some quarters. Even the Nickel Plate management, early this year, estimated that the road would be “in the red” every month of 1933, except October. The big comeback in traffic, which got 'under way for the Nickel Plate late in May, proved the management's estimates for the year were a lot too conservative. The road has been in the black since early summer, and the R.F.C.’s loan to it now looks a lot better than it did last fall and winter.
The Wheeling's improvement has been greater than that of the Nickel Plate. Some figure that the road’s net income this year will mn to as high as $12 a share on the prior lien stock, so it is amply able to rnake the disbursement.
Changes In Steel Institute	.
The selection of Walter S. Tower as executive secretary of the American Iron & Steel Institute isn’t to be regarded as a permanent choice of the active official in the Institute. Mr. Tower, manager of commercial research of the Bethlehem Steel Co., has been “borrowed" by the Institute for an indefinite time.
At the present time, the head of the Institute, Charles M. Schwab, and the executive secretary both are officials of an independent steel company. The new set up is something of a change. In the past, there has been no executive secretary. The new official’s duties will he confined, largely, to the administration of the provisions of the NRA code for the industry, under the supervision of a special committee. -
Water Works Certificates Rally
Announcement that the voting trust of American Water Works had been dissolved, effective as of October 2, brought a rally in the certificates and a dip in the stock, which was to be expected. The certificates sold up to around 20, and the stock sagged down to meet them from the previous close of 22%.
The voting trust agreement was dated January 2, 1931, and was not to have expired until January 2, 1936. It was formed to perpetuate the management of Water Works, and to ward off attempts by outsiders to obtain a controlling interest in the company. Roughly 1,097,000 shares of Water Works were held in the voting trust .out of the 1,750,888 shares outstanding. The stock always commanded a substantial premium over the certificates. Over the last three days, the two have been working closer together.	-	......
Foreign Selling In BondB
Foreign selling has played a part in declines scored by both stocks and bonds, but selling in the bond market has been a greater factor in furthering the drop than in the stock market, according to opinions expressed in some quarters. Disturbed by all the inflation talk, foreigners have been getting out of even speculative bonds, fearing an even- greater depreciation in the dollar in the foreign exchange market and a lessened return on their investments in this country as a result.
Hog Prices Working Upward
In the welter of discouragement yesterday, with stocks, bonds and most commodities declining .steeply, the course of hog prices furnished one ray of hope. In spite'of the losses elsewhere, hogs sold at the best price since May 18, under an insistent demand. In the summer of 1932, rising prices for hogs were the first indication of a general turn upward in all markets. The upward swing, then, was a normal rise, however, and wasn’t based, os is the present upturn, on special efforts being made by the government to reduce supply and other abnormal factors.
Atchison’s Buying Program
The program of purchases already made and Contemplated by the Atchison is the first sign of a move to lay in supplies of materials given by any railroad. There has been hand-to-mouth buying on the part pf the carriers from time to time over the last two years, but no general buying program has been' undertaken. Samuel T. Bledsoe, president, in his discussion of the
Atchison's position, pointed out that the threat of higher prices had made the Atchison management stir itself. The question of steel rail prices was again brought up by Mr. Bledsoe, who remarked that the Atchison would come into the rail market if the price were “right” Steel makers don't feel in the mood to cut rail prices now, however, with their costs inerfestog due to the operations of NRA.
How They Stand '
Earnings reports or vending companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are
included according to	their latest report, and	
are not duplicated.	Since	Additions
	Julyl	yesterday
. ncreased earnings ...,		 399	2
Decreased earnings ....		 302	1
Unchanged dlvide’nds .	..... 728	12
Decreased dividends ..		 11	1
. ncreased dividends .		 69	4
Deferred dividends ...		 2	
Omitted dividends ...		 6	• •
High and	f Low Prices	
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, two stocks made new highs and four stocks made new lows, for the year 1933.
New Highs
Artloem pt .	AmBeetSa pt
- New Lows
Beneficial Ind , I-ubSerNJ 8pt 1 Scheuler Dl/t, White Bock n	.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.