Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 19, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
Abreast of the Market
Market Tiiary
	Wednesday	
	1933	1932
Call money renewal......		19o
Time mone>, 90 days... .	.	
acceptance*, 90 days.....	- %	<7? V. ef.
Commercial paper........	.	1 V. ft,	i ee a. cr-
Francs, cables		.0553	0393.V
Sterling cables	 .....	.	4 no	3 no 14
New York bank rate. ...	- 2^*^	2fc %
Reserve System ratio. ...	-	es.7%	62.8%
Coffee. Rio. December....	•	5.45	a 40
Copper. -Jelivered			.	7U	ft a*
Corn, December			.	42%	25%
Cotton. December........	.	Cl.1ft	ft 40
Hides, December		.	8.30	5.10
Dead, New York 		.	4.10	3.90
Oats, December		.	30	16
Rubber. No 1 stand’d Dec.	7.14		3.40
Silk. raw, October. ..	.	1.40	1.57
Silver. New York . . .	.	36*4	27%
Sugar, raw. December .	.	1 15	1 08
Tin. December..			.	4G OO	23.45
Wheat, December 			.	78>1	49%
Wool tops. December. ..	98 7	52 R
Zinc, Rast St. Douls. ..	.	4.75	3 00*5 3.05
In spite of continued evidence that the Administration was pushing its efforts to support the commodity price level, through purchases of grains and cotton in the open market, stocks showed renewed weakness Wednesday, falling on a burst of selling in the early afternoon.
Sizable losses were chalked up throughout the list, particularly in such quick movers as National Distillers, which Jost €*£ points: U. S. Smelting, down almost as much, and in such other stocks as Johns Manville, Steel common, American Can and numerous others.
The Administration’s concern over the fall in commodity prices was made clear in dispatches from Washington. The President, it was made evident, felt that prices for such commodities as hogs, corn and wheat were still much too low. In spite of the reiteration of the Administration’s position on commodities, however, stocks were nervous from the outset. The list was about unchanged at the opening, and dragged lower as the morning progressed. It steadied, then rallied, after the bursts of heavy selling in the early afternoon.
Scanning the trade reports, the financial community found little to revive its drooping spirits. Mid-week steel reviews were discouraging, and electric output figures showed a sharp lessening of the percentage gam over the like 1932 week. The price of copper metal was marked down to 7J,*> cents a pound, and major soap companies announced price reductions.
Some business reports, however, were good. Continental Can, Gulf States Steel and Atlantic Refining all showed returning earning power in the third quarter. Glidden was another company to show a distmet improvement.
In the face of the heaviness in stocks, bonds held fairly firm. Second-grade issues were off, but high-grade bonds were steady at a higher level of prices. In spite of the acute weakness in French francs, French bonds were steady United States Government obligations were about unchanged.
Steadiness in the grain markets contrasted with uncertainty in stocks. Wheat ruled higher soon after the opening, and closed with a rise of more than 3 cents a bushel. Corn moved up more than 1 cent a bushel, and other coarse grains gained ground. Cotton advanced early, but slipped fast in the late dealings and closed off 10 to 13 points.
Strength prevailed in Londorf, all groups sharing in the buoyant market Industrial stocks were particularly strong, scoring sharp gains, and German bonds recovered further. In Fans, the bourse was steady, with rentes the feature.
Competition on Citrus Crop Movement
United Fruit Co , early in November, will augment its service from Florida ports to New York, competing directly with the railroads on the heavy’ movement of the citrus crop to New York from the South. In the forepart of next month, the Fruit company will have four arrivals a week in New York, one weekly from Tampa and three from Jacksonville. Rates by boat are lower than by rail, and the length of the trip from Jacksonville is 21— days, somewhat longer than by railroad service. From Tampa, the trip takes 4 days
Boat competition with the railroads for moving the citrus crop was keen last season, and promises to be so again this year. The railroads have one distinct advantage Shippers by rail have the consignment privilege, which makes it possible for them to change the destination of cars if they learn, after the shipment has gotten under way, that the market to which they are headed already is glutted, and they can obtain only low prices. Shipping companies have, in some instances, attempted to offset this advantage by using trucks to move shipments from glutted markets, and enable shippers to get higher prices, but the radius of truck operations is somewhat limited. The consignment privilege gives the railroads the upper hand, in so far as mobility of shipments is concerned.
Sharp Comeback for Atlantic Refining
Atlantic Refining’s report for the third quarter showed that the oil companies, given a higher range of prices and the elimination of inventory’ losses, can score sensational comebacks in earning power. Net income for the three months ended September 30 was equal to $2.12 a share on 2,696,642 shares of stock The third quarter always is one of the best of the year for the oil companies.
The enhancement of Atlantic’s profits was due in substantial part to elimination of inventory markdowns. In the first quarter this year, these amounted to roughly $1.579,000, and even in the second they ran to $978,000. In the thiid quarter, Atlantic didn’t have to take such losses. While they constitute only a bookkeeping Item, and mean no actual cash loss to an ol! company. they cut down Income heavily. The gov-
ment’s price-fixing program for the industry means virtual elimination of inventory losses of the size which cut heavily into oil companies' showings during depression years.
Earnings of oil companies change sharply from quarter to quarter, with the second and third quarterly periods of the year the best for the industry. It isn’t fair to assume that Atlantic is assured of the earning power it showed in the past three months but, with price-slashing and inventory losses practically eliminated from the industry, all the oil companies should show improving income.
Investigating Salaries
. The Federal Trade Commission’s investigation into salaries of business executives is causing unusual interest. Possibly business executives recall that the publication of salaries paid to railroad officials, after an inquiry by the Interstate Commerce Commission, led to considerable comment and that, since Joseph B. Eastman,- railroad coordinator, has been in the saddle, some railroad presidents have tak°n further reductions in salaries, bringing the level down to Mr. Eastman’s stipulation of a maximum of $60,000 a year.
Trade Reviews Discouraging
Electric output figures and the mid-week steel trade reviews contributed to the pessimism in evidence in the financial community yesterday. Electric output was still ahead of the corresponding period of 1932. but the increase, in the week ended October 14, amounted only to 7.4%, the smallest percentage advance in some time. Output showed a sharp slump from the previous week, while in 1932. output in the week ended October 14 was ahead of the -previous week. Electricity production now is back to the level prevailing early in June.
Steel production figures showed another drop in output. More disquieting than falling output is the lack of any indication of a nearterm. upswing in buying. The Gulf States Steel report for the third quarter, showing the company was well in the black for that period, didn’t put any life into the steel shares.
Terminal Shares Hearings On
So far. the hearings being held before a special master in St. Louis in regard to the purchase of properties now embraced in Terminal Shares, Inc., controlled by the Alleghany Corp., haven’t been productive of sufficient information on which to base any estimate of what actual value of the properties are. under present conditions. L. W. Baldwin, former president of the Missouri Pacific and now a trustee of the road, testified that studies show a price of $30,827,245 would have been justified, but current prices can’t be figured on what might have been justified at the time the properties were purchased.
The Reconstruction Finance Corp, is trying to find out whether the contract the Missouri Pacific has to buy the properties from the Alleghany Corp, should be ratified or repudiated Repudiation of the contract would be a serious blow to the Alleghany Corp., which holds S14,-245.000 principal amount of the Terminal Shares* notes Under the Missouri Pacific’s contract with Alleghany, these notes were being retired by payments to Alleghany. These payments stopped shortly before the Missouri Pacific went into receivership.
The R. F. C’s move for an investigation into the Terminal Shares’ purchase is a straw m the wind. In every case where the R. F. C has loaned, money to roads, now in receivership, it can be expected to take a very active part in the road’s affairs, and to call for thorough investigation of the actions of the predecessor management.
Back at July Bottom
At yesterday’s close, the Dow-Jones industrial average was only a little more than half a point above the July 22 bottom of 8S 42. The rail average, which tumbled more than 2 points, was roughly 8 points under the July 22 low of 44.32. and the utility average also is far below the July bottom.
Hou They Stand
Earnings reports or leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Increased earnings . .. . .	Since Oct 1 . . . 88	Additions yesterday 21
Decreased earnings . . . .	, . .	33	2
Unchanged dividends...,	. . .	94	«
Resumed dividends . ... .	7	1
Decreased dividends. . . .	*>	
Increased dividends	.	.	r>	2
High and Low Prices
Wednesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, one stock (Mathieson Alkali pfd ) made a new high, and six stocks (Brooklyn Union Gas, Engineers Pub. S. 6^ pfd, Laclede Gas. Life Savers, Pacific Gas & Electric, and Sterling Products) made new lows, for the year 1933.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.