Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 4, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 19
reast
the Market
at debt which would have to be cleared away | before dividends could be considered.
The American Railway Association reported a new high record for bad order cars in June, and locomotives as well have been poorly maintained for the past few years. This situation, together with reports of sharp Increases in car loadings, should spell business for the railroad supply trade.
June Peak for Auto Steel Buying?
Reports from steel centers indicate the requirements of the automotive industry may have reached their peak In June. While July Is starting strong and prospects for August are. good, it is likely that some easiness will develop, partly due to the prospect of a probable vacation next month at the Ford plant
A powerful offset agahrst any let-down In automobile buying la the slowly growing demands from the railroads for track fastenings and rails. If the railroads start to buy steel in anything like normal volume, the steel industry can well afford to stand a seasonal letdown from industries which thus far have provided the bulk of the buying power.
Continental Can Extra Likely
Directors of Continental Can Co. meet within a fortnight for dividend action on the capi-x ’	’	The meeting will be awaited with
while prices softened slightly from the opening.;	for It is known that there have, been
Renewed stimulation for the riee came almost	dlwuMloM
immediately from London, when Secretary Hull | '	'	“	" **
mads public a message from President Roosevelt setting forth this government’s position i regarding international currency measure proposals.
Market
Oil nooty renew*!..........
Time weeey. >0 Stye........
Acceptance*, 40 daye.......
CMunereial paper...........
Trapes, oabtae.............
Btaiilnt eablas............
New Yoi* bank rata.........
JUum System ratto..........
CpSe*. Bto. July...........
"IMapar, delivered..........
Corn, July.'.............
Cotton. July.............
Hides, Beptanber...........
1MA. New Yortc.............
Oata. July.................
Rubber, No. 1 stand’d July suk. .raw, July............
Silver, New York...........
Susar, ttw, July...........
•Hn, July..................
Wheal, July................
Wool tope, July............
Zinc, Kalt It. Louli.......
Diary
Monday 2933 l«r
.0319 4.47H
M.S%
6.90 8% MU 10.25 12.73
4.20 47U fl.<5 2.14 30U
1.49
42.85
98 9100 4.M(M.eO
1133
2%«
% pursue**
,0393H 3.67%
2%*
ST. 1*
e.13 a% 37% 6.60
4.10
3.76 19%
2,57
1.10 26%
0.82 30.00 47% 4900 2.676
Wall Street staged Its own Independence Day celebration in a pre-holiday session marked by fireworks in a broad range of Issues. At the outset, largo blocks of rails and industrials appeared on the tape substantially higher than Saturday's close, carrying both the Dow-Jonee averages well into new high territory.
In the first hour, the tape ran as much as ten minutes behind actual floor transactions,' U1 shares.
Wall Street staged Its own
Britain Liked Speech, Too
Whatever doubts may have existed In other minds regarding the Administration’s purposes, President Roosevelt made It plain that no confusion existed In his own mind, and set forth his views with remarkable clarity. Assailing the theory that temporary and artificial stability In foreign exchanges on the part of a few large countries will achieve results for which alt the nations are working. President Roosevelt called upon the World Economic Conference to direct its efforts to the larger purposes for which It was called, and to appreciate the Importance of a sound internal economic system in any attempt to reach ultimate stabllly. Wall Street like the message. And so did Great Britain, for almost Immediately word came from abroad that under strong pressure from her dominions that government was considering emulating the American price-raising program.
The movement In stock prices was far-reaching, with pivotal issues which had been sluggish recently breaking out of their range on the upside, and numerous rails and specialties advancing in large volume. Utility issues were somewhat restrained, although the general strength imparted a firmer tone to this group also. Volume of dealings on " ‘ " York Stock Exchange was placed at shares.'
the New 6,720,000
“toppiness" cf the pivotal stocks in the past few weeks Induced many chart followers to adopt a bearish, or at least reactionary attitude towards the market. The "topplnesa" In the leaders, It now seems evident, was merely the necessary period of hesitancy In which these stocks were consolidating their recent gains.
Companies reporting on a monthly basis are Included according to their latest	'
are not duplicated.
report, and
Additions Saturday 3 1 0 2
Since
July 1
3 , 6 , 12
2
Increased earnings ., Decreased earnings . Unchanged dividends Decreased dividends Increased dividends . Initial dividends ....
Chain Store Reports Favorable
Those who have been concerned that a rise in prices might cause reduced sales, with pur- • chasing power of a large portion of the public at such low levels, have little cause to worry as yet At least the chain stores through their direct contacts with the public would be expected to apprehend this situation quickly. Yet early reports from these companies for June are said to be very favorable, despite moderate price Increases.
OU Companies Taking New Business
With the crude oil market strong, the small refiners operating from hand to mouth, who formerly bought cargoes of crude under the market and were able to undercut on gasoline, are hard put. Much of the business which they formerly secured is now going to the larger companies. The gasoline sales of these companies recently have shown a considerable improvement, increasing their manufacturing operations.
The sharp rise in New York Central shares to 51%, at which price the Delaware A Hudson CoC. has a profit of around $15,000,000, caused considerable amusement over an article by an eminent railroad analyst which appeared In the May 26 issue of a well known magazine.
The article said in part:
“Serious students of the situation were perhaps more amused than shocked when the papers announced the purchase of roughly 500,000 shares of New York Central by L. F. Loreq of the D. A H. It is well known that Lorec’s profit in 1929 on the sale of Lehigh Valley and Wabash stocks to tho Pennsylvania was due to the latter's Influence in forcing him out of the picture rather than voluntary liquidation on his part owing to the foreknowledge that a decline in the market was imminent. In other words, if he could have held the stock he would still own it today.
“Loree may profit from New York Central by building a greater system composed of the Lackawanna, New York Central and Delaware A Hudson, and force the bondholders to make some sacrifice, and this debt reduction is imperative if the road is to operate profitably.
“Receiverships have much in their favor and bankruptcy for the New York Central would not prove as disastrous as most people imagine."
With Central selling at 61%, Mr. Loree is probably “more amused than shocked," at his $15,000,000 profit.
When Central was selling at 14 last December, The Wall Street Journal said:
“Officials of the company are highly encouraged by the slow but steady improvement in tho road's business. Loadings reached their low level last summer. A steady improvement has continued since then. Company officials state that the road is better off and the outlook more promising than at any £ime in the past year."
of declaring an extra dividend. While it Lb not certain that this extra will be acted upon at this meeting, the prospects for a declaration this month, or at any rate three months hence, are considered good. The company is exceptionally strong in cash, is earning at a $3 annual rate, and has substantial profits on inventories of pig tin, tin plate, sine and other useful commodities which were bought earlier in the year. The present rate is $2 annually.
Commodities Advance Further
Pronounced strength prevailed in all classes of bonds, with average prices rising to a new high for the current year. The British 5^s sold up to a record high price.
The dollar weakened materially in foreign exchange markets, Sterling in New York rose to $4.47 in terms of the dollar at one time, a gain cf 12 cents. Wheat closed with advances of about 4 cents a bushel, while cotton ended with gains of $1 a bale and slightly higher, after being up $2 a bale at one time.
Copper Situation Better
The copper industry is beginning to emerge from the doldrums. The reduction in stocks of refined copper in the United States amounted to SO,000,000 pounds or more in June, which is about equivalent to the reduction which took place in all of 1932. In May stocks wore reduced 40,000,000 pounds and in April 15.000,000 pounds. Domestic consumption of new. copper is now 40,000 short tons a month, compared with 16,000 tons to 17,000 tons a month at the bottom of the depression in 1032. There has been an upward trend in copper consumption abroad, but not as impressive as that which is taking place in this country.
Chart Students Confounded
The extraordinary, complex and changes in the international news has made it difficult for those who attempt to interpret these developments and anticipate their effects marketwise. The chart students, who pretend to be completely disinterested in news or busi-I ness developments, apparently have been run-I ning into even greater difficulty. The apparent
Rail Equipments in Favor
While railroad equipment stocks _	_
cannot be depended upon to show consistent earning power, they have their innings in the business cycle when they show large earnings. Moreover, many of the companies in this field have maintained a strong financial position and can pass along to stockholders any profits which may develop in the next year. The equipment companies did little, er no. expanding in the 1926-1929 era and have added no extra burden
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
generally
BWift
High and Low Prices
Monday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 366 stocks made new highs and no stock made a new loan, for the year 1933.
How They Stand
Earnings reporta of leading companies com’ pared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations com1 pared with the previous declarations, follow.