Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 23, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
HlarTcct
Call money renewal........
Time money, 90 days.......
Acceptances, 90 days......
Commercial paper..........
Francs, cables ...........
Bterllni; cables .........
New York, bank rate.......
Reserve System ratio......
CoSee. Rio December...... Copper, delivered ........
Corn. December ...........
Cotton, December .........
Bides, December ..........
Dead, New York ...........
Oats, December ..........
Rubber. No. 1 stand’d Dec. Silk, raw, October........
Silver. New York .........
Sugar, raw. December .. . Tin. December ............
Wheat. December ..........
Zinc, Rast St. Douis......
Diary
Saturday
3933	1932
	1%
	
	
	
.0552	.0394 b.
4.51	3.39 A
2%	2%%
65.5%	61.3%
Closed	6 42
	6
43 U	25 %
9.21	4.16
8.00	4 80
4.00	3 00© 3.05
33 b.	
7.25	3.36
Closed	1.53
36 n.	27
Closed	1.06
45.25	22 90
82	4BH
Ot,	
4.‘75	3.00© 3?05
Neither the formal announcement that the government and representatives ot Soviet Russia would begin conferences shortly on problems surrounding Russian recognition nor word that the President was to make a radio address to the country Sunday night could rouse the securities markets in the closing session of the week. A severe decline in the alcohol stocks, with .National Distillers down around 7% points and American Commercial .Alcohol showing a similar loss, brought selling in other groups, which sent the list back down to the previous bottom for the downward trend. Celanese, American Telephone, Allied Chemical, uf S. Smelting and a number of other stocks fell to new lows for the set-back. Trading volume picked up late as pressure on the market became insistent, and declines grew larger.
Nothing in the news accounted for the sharp reaction in stocks. Possibly the flnnnnM] community was disturbed by developments in Washington and rumors from there. Reports on the current trend of business, indicating that tbp outlook was not encouraging, added to the discomfiture of those constructively Inclined.
Breaks in some of the recent favorites were abrupt and sharp. After the downward trend got underway, such stocks as U. S. Smelting. Celanese, Allied Chemical and National Distillers fluctuated as much as half a point or more between sales. The tape lagged four minutes behind actual transactions at one time.
The bond market was not as heavy as the Btock list, but prices were in a downward trend. Government bonds shared in the heaviness of the list. Speculative issues of all groups were the weakest in the list* Foreign bonds were steady.
Commodities were higher early, but they lost their strength when stocks began to fade away. In the early dealings, cotton was up nearly SI a bale, but it Jost its gains and closed unchanged. Wheat was up almost 1 cent a bushel in the forepart of the session, but it, too, eased with stocks.
Russian Recognition and American Trade
Judged by the recent past, recognition of Soviet Russia, envisaged as the aim of the coming conferences, will aid only special industries in this country. If recognition is accomplished, it should enlarge the Russian business of such companies as International Harvester, Deere and J. I. Case, which already have sold large amounts of equipment to Russia; Singer Sewing Machine, which had an extensive Russian business, and Allis Chalmers, General Electric and Westinghouse.
Stocks of ail those companies were marked up in Saturday’s trading Another group responding to the news was tho railroad equipment shares. While president of the Great Northern, Ralph Budd, made a visit to Russia, at the invitation of the Soviet Government, and made a study of the railroad needs. Mr. Budd stressed, at that time, the need for new equipment, and the numerous accidents on Soviet roads, attributed to poor equipment, have indicated the correctness of his position.
If Russian recognition really is to mean anything to the United States m the opening of new markets, we will have to revise the policies we have pursued in the past Russia will have to have markets for her exports in order to obtain funds to pay us for goods she buys here In the past, Russian exports of commodities. competing with American commodities, have not been relisted in this country.
Works Program Lettings Increase
The most significant item in the compilation of construction figures for September was that covering public works. The government’s program is now getting well under way, and contracts in September amounted to $57,322,800, or about 80% higher than the total for August. The Increase was due largely to additional contracts for highway and levee work in the Mississippi Valley.
All signs indicate that, by the spring of 1934. the government’s public works program will be in full swing. The expenditure of the sums contemplated under the program, according to independent estimates, should take between 500,000 and 1,000,000 men off the roster of the unemployed. A return of purchasing power to that number of individuals should help to lift purchasing power substantially in coming months.
Copper Market Firmer
While copper buying has not picked up much, there is a better feeling in the domestic copper market in regard to the price trend. For three successive days, sales have been made at 7% cents a pound, up of a cent a pound from the bottom price. Practically all the speculative metal, which came on the market
and forced the break in the price, has been assimilated, and in many quarters the view if held that, given fair conditions in the general markets, copper will show a tendency to improve in price.
Rumors Accompany Sharp Dip
Wall Street Saturday was flooded with rumors, and some were in large part responsible for declines which took place in inividual groups of stocks. The abrupt dip In the alcohol stocks, which were the weakest on the list, was attributed, in part, to reports circulated around the financial community of “Government sale” of liquor. The reports were vague, and sounded illogical, but in the present confused state of the speculative mind they were enough to bring a stream of selling into the “repeal” stocks.
One of the noteworthy things about the market’s performance: wa» the way in which the railroad stocks withstood selling. Losses In this group were relatively small, and the rail average, at the close, was not at a new low, although the industrial average broke through Thursday’s bottom.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Increased earnings........
Decreased earnings........
Unchanged dividends.......
Resumed dividends ........
Decreased dividends.......
Increased dividends ....... Omitted dividends ......
Initial dividends.........
High and Low
Since
Oct. 1
115
43
121
Additions Saturday 8 1 5
2
1
Exchange
Auburn Auto. f luirlcdo fin*., j RncIEn T.igb* lrox film A. i 1' Dork... j Schenley Dul.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.