Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 17, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Abreast, of the
Market Diary
Call money renewal....... Time money, SO <tayi......
Accaptxncec, SO <lay«...... Commercial paper.^...... Franca, cablea......
SurSa? -xxtsssr;... New Yortc Peak rale...... Reserve Bystem ratio....... Coffee, Rio. B^smber.... Capper, delivered.......
X>ara, September............ Cotton, October .'.......
Hides, September..........
Lead, 'New YoHc...........
Oate, September.......
Rubber, No. 1 atand'd Sept. Silk, raw, October......... Silver, Kexr York.........
Sugar, raw, September.... Wheat, September..........
Wool tope, September......
Zinc, East St. Louis......
Weaneeaw 3033
X®U%
.0523
"	-4.4014
‘ 2H>%
08.4%
1932 . »*
■sex*
2% .0322 A 3.47H
CT.3%
5.S6
0 <5%
3.71
11.05
4.50
.3314
0.75
1.67
36
1.30
8714
91.70
3-OU
7.05 3%tfU 3144 7.41.
5.75
3.30
1614
3.48
1.37
28 ■■
1.10
50 V
51.30
2.76'
With the peg under the grain markets pulled, cereals fell the full amount permitted under the rules limiting one day’s fluctuations, and helped to bring about a “reaction in stock prices yesterday. As far as curing the Chicago wheat pit of the paralysis which has gripped it for. several'days, pulling the peg had very little effect Crain« were off the limit at the Opening, and trading stagnated again. For a time, trading1 went ahead at Winnipeg, but prices there. finally tumbled to the minimum level, and from then on, North America had to .do without a major grain market C	.
The fall in grains and in cotton took its toll from the stock market. The list opened irregularly lower, and a selling wave.of sizable proportions drove the market down quite sharplj’ late in the second hour. Losses, at the morning lows, reached as much as 5 or 6 points in a few of the leaders, and declines of .2 or 3 were sprinkled liberally throughout the list. Support buying was met on the set-back, and the list turned quieter in the afternoon, retracing some of the ground lost. Trading volume worked up to 1,860,000 shares.
Labor troubles in scattered sections of the country and difficulties over code provisions for major industries, like the steel and soft coal businesses, didn't help the market. Weekly steel reviews reported a sharp Blump in the 'operating rate, the first important set-back since the upturn began.late in March. While electric output was still well ahead of the like week of 1932, the percentage advance was narrower than it has been. Declaration of the regular American Telephone dividend didn’t help the list importantly. The financial community expected the $9 rate to be maintained, due to the betterment in the company’s .business.
Public utility and industrial bonds held firm in >a slow bond market. Railroad • bonus, both high-grade and second grade issues, Blipped lower, Governments had a strong tone, and the foreign list was mostly steady.
Wheat finished off'5 cents a bushel, the maximum allowed under the restrictions, and JosseB in oats, rye and corn were the limits permitted. In Winnipeg, wheat closed off to 1% cents a bushel. Cotton was down around $2 a bale, at the day’s lows, but it rallied near the finish and was off only around $1 a bale.
Strength in Distillers Co. shares was a feature in London. The rest of the list was very little changed. In Paris, prices were heavy in a quiet trade.	.	...	.
tempted to get a seat on one of "the 13 New York-bound planes,' which took off that day. Not a single seat was available. United Air Lines has been running 'll services daily from Chicago to New York and planes have been full Other air lines serving the city have had heavy traffic.	,	<
Air lines have a long way to -go to offset through, passenger revenues the restriction in Government payments on mail contracts. Of total operating reyenues of roundly $25,000,000, air lines last year received roughly $10,000,000 on -mall contracts, with $6,000,000 coming in from passenger and express business. This year Government mail contract payments will amount only to about $15,000,000, so that passenger and express revenues must be moved up 67% over 1032 to offset this loss. In the first six months of;;1933, passenger mileage on domestic sir lirins ami linen from the United States to foreign countries was 27% ahead of the like months of 1832. Revenues were up probably just about the. same amount.	'	'
.	Pit Seat Prices Down '
-Stagnation In the " grain markets, with, brokers going through-a lean period as far as commissions are concerned, ^was reflected in the price iof seats on the Chicago Board of'Trade yesterday. A seat changed hands at $8,000, off 20% from the previous transaction.
, :	.	How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year'previous, and dividend declarations compared With the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis ate Included according to their latest report,' and are not duplicated.	.	. ,
.	•	Since Additions
..	Julyl yesterday
Increased earnings ......... 326	7.
Decreased earnings ........  234	' '4
Unchanged diyldends....... 293	' .	14
Decreased dividends .......	6	..
Increased dividends......24	2
Deferred dividends........	1	..
High and Low Prices '.
Wednesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, no stock made a new high and two stocks’made new lows, for the year 1933.	’
.	New Lows
Fox Film A..	Inter It'd Pt,
Price Pegging Troubles in France '	. ,
The utter stagnation of the grain market in Chicago, after.'minimum prices were put on, has. a parallel in France’s experiment in fixing the price of wheat. The two, taken together, should make governments extremely cautious about attempting to fix minimum prices on commodities, for both prove that such a step merely leads to practical suspension of markets.
In France, Parliament decided that thiB year’s crop of domestic wheat should be sold at not less than 115 francs a quintal, roughly $1.71 a bushel at prevailing rates of exchange. Fixing of that minimum has disrputed the markets, according to word from abroad, with buyers holding off and farmers unable to dispose of their crops. In some cases, farmers have had to resort to bartering their wheat, exchanging it for bread from bakers.
Significant Words from the I. O. C.
The Interstate Commerce Commission attached a significant paragraph to its docket covering the application of the Chicago & North Western for a loan to help the road finance maturing obligations. . The paragraph said:
"Under the terms of the Emergency Transportation Act, 1933, we may not approve an application such as this if we are of the opinion that the carrier is in need of:flnancial reorganization in the public, interest. In view of the moderate capitalization of this carrier in relation to its assets, together with its past record and improving situation as to earnings, we are of the opinion that-the public interest does not, at this time, require the financial reorganization of this carrier."
From two angles the commission's words are significant. In the (first place, they put the commission's stamp of approval on the C. & N. W.’s financial set-up. In the second, they indicate a strict attitude on the, part of the commission toward any further, loans to railroads. One important loan is up for consideration now. The Western Pacific needs roughly $1,000,000 to enable it to meet September 1 payments. It has asked the Reconstruction Finance-Corp, for aid and the I. C. C. must pass on the application. Action of both bodies on the loan may be an index of their strictness in doling out additional funds to needy roads.
Detroit Edison Ordered to Cut Rates
Sporadic outcroppings of rate reduction orders are continuing to keep the utility industry in hot-water. Utility companies are getting it from both sides. Rate structures still are under fire and operating costs are being jacked up by the provisions of the code under the National Industrial Recovery Act. .	! . .
The latest ,rate reduction order is that issued by the Michigan Public Utilities Commission. It has ordered Detroit Edison to cut its rates $l,500,000..a year. The company has been ordered to submit a new rate schedule by August 26, to become effective, if the commission,approves it, September 1. If the cut is put through, it will mean a loss in revenue equal'to roughly $1.18 a share on .the 1,272,260 capital shares of Detroit Edison outstanding. In ,the 12 months ending with July, the company earned $4.61 a share on the stock.
' Taking to the Air
Travelers are showing their willingness to take to the air and airplane passenger traffic figures are reflecting the increasing air-mindedness of the American public. United Air Lines figures for July, when 15,462 passengers were carried—an increase of .44.0% over the like month last year—are an illustration of tho briskness of the upturn. The World's Fair in Chicago is partly responsible for the big gain. One Visitor there reported that lost Sunday he 'at-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.