Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 3, 1933; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 13
Abreast of
the Market
1*	
	1%*
%%	
i%e%%	3ue%%
.0004	.0393%
445	3.67%
	3%%
«a.85	57.3%
8.M	S.13
S	6%
MU	37%
10.14	8.90
12.75	4.10
4.20	2.76
45H	19 U
8.45	3.57
3.14	1.15
	3«k
1.45	0.S3
42.85	30.00
wu	47%
Ol.TO	49.00
4.50C4.W	3.970
Overnight news of the pact between central j banks to work together to lessen fluctuations In the foreign exchange markets, and tbe Presi-1 dent's rejection of pegging operations, as well as a flood of inspiring news on the trend of domestic industry, brought a wave of buying into securities and commodities in the closing session of the week. In stocks, spectacular gains were scored ny several issues, with the uprush of 14 point* In Allied Chemical the high spot. Domestic CvIpuFutiuii bonds Wefu UfluOrtuiy higher, and grains and cotton marched forward in spirited trading. ■
The Dow-Jones industrial average closed the day above 100. It is tbe flrst time the industrials have closed above “par" since November 19,1931. The rail'average also was in new high ground.
The railroad shares were the early leaden of the market The carloadings report, issued at the close on Friday, showed traffic at the highest level since last October, and up more than 20% from the similar week of 1932. Lehigh Valley was the spectacular performer in the group, a large block changing hands at 27, up 3% from the previous close. Great Northern, New York Central, Baltimore A Ohio and New Haven pushed up to new highs on the advance, and the whole railroad group fell into line.
Industrials were not slow in following the pace set by the rails. Allied surged upward, helped by the overnight announcement that the company and the New York Stock Exchange had reached a basis for a settlement of the controversy over the company's reports to stockholders. The stock leaped upward, after a late opening on a big block. American Rolling Mill added around 3 points to its large gain of the previous session, and there were wide advances elsewhere.
from the previous close. Jersey Central rarely appears on the tape, and fluctuates violently, or the 274,368 shares of etock outstanding, approximately 145,000 shares are owned by the Reading Co.
Profits on Barter Operations
Some of the small northwestern telephone companies, which accepted grains from farmers in payment for their bills to keep subscribers on their lines, have handsome profits on the transactions now. In some instances, the com and wheat delivered to the companies is now selling for about double the figure at which it was accept'd for bills.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are ! Included according to " '	‘
are not duplicated.
their latest
report, and
Since July 1
Additions Saturday
Increased earnings .... Decreased earnings .... .Unchanged dividends . • Decreased dividends .,. Increased dividends •.. Initial dividends .......
High and Low Prices
Saturday nn the New York Stock Exchange, 116 stocks made new highs and no stock made a; now low for the year 1933.
New Hijcha Kul'l Roll M Bria .......
Brio 1PC....
Brio 2pf....
Fedrral Motor GenAI ww pf Gan Am Tank Gon Motor*.. Gen KyRlsual GaaHt Caat pf Gabel iAdolfl Grand Vn pt. Groat Mor pf. Harealaa Mot. HorculM Paw 111 Cent pf A Jot BmIbcmM Inter Carrier Inter Cement. Intern Ntektl. Knyeer. Julia* Klmb'ly Clark Lehigh Vai Cl Id*** My pf. Lima Locomot MerAndr * F MeKeooon * X MrKeeAR pf. Mary • Co... Mortal * Co.. Motor Vroda. Nat Xn * Ht> National Tea. NY Air Brake N Y Central.. N Y lavmtoro N Y N H * H NYNHAH pf. Norfolk * W.
AUI«1 Ch.m'l Am Brake 8I> Ant Cnr*F pt Am Ch pf ww AmHnwall 8S Am Lcccmetv A mMeh*. Fdy Am Radiator. Am Roll MUI. Am Safety Ba Am Steal Fdra Alloa Powder. AUaa Pdr pf. Baldwin Loco Baldwin L bt Balt. * Ohio. BaltSOhto Pf-Rahn Alumin. Bor* Warner. Boston A Me. Rutld Mft Co. Budd Mf* pf. Hullnrtl Co. Burroughs Ad Hyvrv (A M) Canada Dry.. Caterpillar Tr Celntex Co.... Celotex rtfe-. OnBR of NJ CMJUTiP pf. Cbl KIAP 7pt Chryelrr .... Coca Cola.... Cot Furl A Ir Com I nv Treat Drl A Hudson Del., lac * W DrnSRGW pt
ft
3
5
3
Norf hern Pae/ Norwalk T |rf PaclOc T * T Panhandle PB ParkUtnh Cop Pans Coal A O Penn Dixie pt penna R R. • • Pere Marq’tte Poor A Co. B Pollman, l»®» Rendles ..... Reading let pt Republic Steel Karnse Arma. XMtqooxi uoag Southern Pac. Southern Rwy Spencer Keif. Superheater . Symington ... Ttmkn Knllor L'nlrrn Carbldo Union Paclflc. Un Piece Dr* Il R FrelsM.. V R Gypenm.. UST^ath prtrf (J R PtpeAFdy U s Steel nt.. Univ !.w»f Toh Va-Car Ch 8pf Va-Car Ch 7pt Went Pae pt. Woetx Air B Weetln F.l 7pf Wheel Rtl pt. White Rock... Youngetn'n 8h
All groups of bonds shared in the upturn. The best performers continued to be the low-priced railroad issues, but industrial and the high-grade utility and railroad obligations moved ahead. As in stocks, such profit-taking as came into the market was absorbed readily, and bonds pushed forward to new highs.
Trading in stocks was at a very fast pace, and volume was large for a Saturday. The ticker lagged as much as 6 minutes behind early, caught up with the market, but fell behind again in the late dealings.
Trading was feverish in the grain markets, and prices shot upward. Wheat, which has bad a substantial reaction from the recent highs, spurted ahead again for gains of around 4 cents a bushel. Other grains followed the lead of the major cereal. Cotton was up more than 31 a bale at one time, but eased off, closing up 11 to 1ft points.
Paying Off the R. F. C.
Railroads have been among the largest borrowers from the R. F. C., with loans from the j corporation now outstanding in the neighborhood of $340,000,000. The Pennsylvania is the flrst of the large borrowers from the corporation to signify its intention of paying off its debt, incurred in connection with the electrification of its main line between New York and Washington. The road is to start repayment of'the $27,500,000 it borrowed with a refund of $9,500,000.
The Pennsylvania’s move is significant from a number of angles. It shows. that the traffic improvement which the carriers have enjoyed is putting them In position, to eliminate debts piled up in the period of stress. While the Pennsylvania has made a stronger comeback than some roads, and is In sounder financial position, there are others which are gradually getting In position to pay back the R. F. C. One of those is the New York Central, and if present traffic trends continue, ltrwould not be surprising to see the Nickel Plate able to make a payment to the R. F. C. before the year is out.
Over the long term, repayments on the loans ifrom the R. F. C. is going to involve new financing by the railroads. A. A. Berle, special adviser to the corporation on railroad matters, in a recent speech insisted that railroad financing, in tbe future, should take the form of offerings of additional stock, rather than bonds. It is too early, now, to look for any railroad stock financing, in the form of Issuance of rights, but it is not improbable that over the next six montbs, assuming that traffic holds the current uptrend, there will be railroad stock financing through issuance of rights.	'
One other aspect of the Pennsylvania’s repayment should not be overlooked. While the proportion the refund bears to the total loans to carrier from the R. F. C. is small, nevertheless, it is a big help to the government to make a start at getting back some of the money it h«ui been paying out to the carriers.	'
Exhibiting at "Century of Progress”
Accompanying the quarterly dividend checks of the Union Carbide A Carbon Co. was a folder, informing stockholders that the corporation is a large exhibitor at The Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago. Carbide like a number of other big companies, is taking advantage of the exposition to show its products to the crowds flocking to Chicago.
1 The financial community is awaiting with considerable eagerness the details of the settlement of the controversy between Allied Chemical A Dye and the New York Stock Exchange which grew out of the failure of the company to furnish adequate information to its *tock-holders in its annual reports. In view of the length of the struggle between the company I and the Exchange over the matter, and the I firm stand taken by the Exchange, Wall Street ! is expecting that Allied will from henceforth adopt a policy toward stuCkiiGluera more in conformity to the trend of the times.
Allied common made immediate response to the news. The stock did not open until almost 10:30, and then 5(000 shares changed hands at 123, an overnight gain of 7% pointe. The stock pushed higher later in the session.
Jersey Central Soars
A sudden spurt of buying in Central Railroad of New Jersey Saturday put the stock back in the blue chip class with a rush. Tbe stock sold as high as 105 and closed at 103, up 14 Ji points
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.