Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 23, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Christmas
President Roosevelt’s ___________ ___________
a silver buying program, lifted stock I to 10 points at the start of trading in the final full session before the holiday, but the list had difficulty in holding the wide gains scored, due to heaviness in a number of active stocks, particularly American Telephone. Consolidated Gas and National Distillers. The market leaders, however, were higher at the finish, industrials showing the greatest buoyancy. Gains ran to almost jlu points in some of the more speculative Issues, and the market surged ahead in the late dealings, closing at the day’s highs. Trading volume moved up to 2.420,000 shares.
The silver stocks hailed the President’s pronouncement with sweeping advances at the opening. United States Smelting opened at 99 on a big block, up 10; American Smelting & Refining. at 45, was up 5%; Cerro de Pasco, International Silver and others scored lesser gains. Old line leaders in the industrial group jumped 2 to 4 points on big blocks. American Can. du Pont, Allied Chemical and Chrysler being among the best performers.
Commodities, too, gave a display of fireworks at the opening. Cotton opened SI a bale higher; silver futures soared almost the 3-cent limit, and grains, led by wheat, ran up rapidly. Wheat, at the start, showed an overnight advance of around 4 cents a bushel. Later in the cession prices eased off, but a part of the advance was held. May wheat closing 3 cents up on the day. Cotton closed near the highs, up $1 a bale.
The Government bond market suffered a setback, reflecting the slump in the value of the dollar in the foreign exchange market. Domestic corporation bonds held relatively steady. Some of the foreign issues moved upward, in sympathy with the higher prices for foreign currencies.
Higher prices prevailed in London. In Paris, the bourse was quiet, with rentes firm.
present of
able lapse of time had caused silver talk to sink Into the background.
The Administration’s proposal was taken as another proof that President Roosevelt is holding to his H»fprmination to lift the commodity price level. On the night of Sunday, October 22, he told the country in a radio address that prices would be raised, one way or another. At the close of that speech, the President announced , the gold buying program. For roughly a month after his pronouncement, commodity prices ran up. Since mid-November, they have been in a decline. Announcement of the srtlver-buying program comes at a time when commodity price indices are about where they were just prior to the gold-buying statement. “ ‘	’
of the major commodities are late October level.
In the long run, the most about the new silver policy is the fact that the government is going to take off the market the entire United States production. Lifting this weight from the world price should be an important aid. for the United States is the second largest producer of silver in the world.
Politically, the move is shrewd. The Administration has made use of one of the provisions of the Thomas Amendment, embodying the iriflationary ideas of Congress. The move has been, hailed by the silver advocates, one of the vocal inflation blocs in Congress. The President, by making this move on the eve of the assembly of the new Congress, silences that group.	x
L. & N. Dividend Move Delayed
Louisville & Nashville directors were influenced largely by the dividend tax in delaying the declaration of a dividend on the stock. If business holds up to expectations, a dividend is likely to be declared in the first quarter of 1934, and possibly at the January meeting.
Forward Buying at Higher Prices
One of the major companies, with interests many fields, has been doing a large amount forward buying. Practically all of this for-
Prices for some well below the
Important thing
in of	.
ward buying of materials has been done at prices above levels now prevailing, for delivery during 1934 The company has a reputation for shrewdness in its purchases of goods.
a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
	Since Oct. 1	Additions Yesterday
Increased earnings ....	......	378	1
Decreased earning* , ,	..... 201	1
Unchanged dividends .		 535	7
Resumed dividends ...		 58	
Decreased dividends .		 11	2
Increased dividends ...		 71	1
Omitted dividends . .		 12	
Ir’tlal dividends			 7	
High and	Low Prices	
Exchange,
for the year 1933.
Friday, on the New York Stock seven stocks made new highs and twenty stocks made new lows.
Bktn On*DGa« Com & Bon pf Coneoltda Gee Cnnsnl Gaw pf
En< l*nb M pr EnrPS pt wrw Gen Cl*ar
New Highs Interboro R T Int Nickel pt
New Lows
Lambert ..... BI8PSSMDL ct Nat Distiller*. Pacific Gaa&B •*aclMr Octet PubRerNJ 7pf Stand. Gaa pf
MacAn<l£F Ma-rlin Eockw
Stand	Bpf
Stand Gs« 7pt Unit Corp Unit Gan Imp Cd Piece D pf Vick Chemical
Administration’s Silver Mo\e
The Administration’s move to lift the price of newly mined silver in the United States by almost 50% will bring renewed life to an area of the country which has suffered heavily because of low prices for the metal. The announcement of the silver buying program wasn’t preceded by the usual crop of rumors, but took Wall Street completely by surprise. More than two months ago, rumors were rife in the financial community that the Administration was going to •‘do something” for silver, but the fact that these mmors hadn’t been borne out after a consider-
U. 1*. Equipment Expenses Higher
One explanation of the decline in Union Pacific’s operating income in November to below the level of November, 1932, is the step-up in the company’s expenditures on equipment maintenance. The company’s outlay on that item for the month reached $2,123,072, an increase of $629,515, or 42.1%. over November, 1932. The road’s gross revenues for the month were up to $10,494,317, a gain of 11 3C< over November, 1932.
Chrysler Reaches New 1938 High
The late rally in stocks yesterday found Chrysler in the lead. The stock, which has been a target for short selling recently, spurted ahead in the late dealings, pushed through the previous 1933 top and closing a full point above the previous high.	*	’
stock, helped to put the market selves by rushing to cover. — at the day’s high, up 4J~>.
Shorts, trapped in the up on them-stock closed
The
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of	_
panies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on
leading com-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.