Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 16, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2	_
Abreast
of
the Market
Market
Diary .
1933
Thursday
Call money renewal........ Time money, 30 day*...... Acceptances. 90 days........
Commercial paper...........
Francs, cables.............
Sterling cables............
New York bank rate.........
Reserve System ratio.......
Coffee, Rio. July..........
Copper, delivered..........
Corn, July.................
Cotton,* July .............
Sides, September...........
Tread, New York............
Oats. July.................
* Rubber, No. 1 stapd’d July
811k, raw, July............
Silver, New York...........
Supar, raw, July...........
Tin, July...................
Wheat. July................
Wool tops, July...........,
Zinc, Rast St. Louis.......
2333
1%	2%%
	1%%
%®%%	1©'% of 1%
	
.0487%	.0392%
4.02 %	3.65
2%%	3%
88.3%	59.4%
5 72	/ 6 38
8 Hominal	
45%	z 30%
S 85	/	8 23
11 90	z	3 75
4.20	/	3 00
28%	20%
S 45	2.65
3.98	1.20
35%	27%
1.32	0.82
40.25	28.75
74%	50%
86 00	49 O0
4 30	2.80
was downward dur-fcll back to around following’ announce-
Lacking inspiration from the overnight news and confused by developments at the London Economic Conference, stocks pursued an erratic course for the first four hours of trading yesterday, but in the final hour they dipped sharply, with trading volume increasing on the decline. Losses in the leaders ran to as high as 7 points, and in the late dealings the whole market gave way in a steep decline.
The course of sterling Ing the morning, and it $4.06. In the afternoon,
ment of the tentative accord on currency stabilization, It dropped to as low as $4.02. The weakness in sterling helped to depress the general stock list, and heaviness in grains, which reacted sharply in Chicago, also was an adverse factor. The gold shares were the only group to ’show Important weakness early. They reacted on word from Washington that President Roosevelt believed that newly mined gold should be subject to the same restrictions applying to the metal generally. That put a damper on talk of free market for gold in this country. War debt news was not a vital factor in the markets.
Railroad stocks, particularly New York Central, were features of strength until the last hour. Central reached a new high for the year, and was in demand at around the best levels of the advance. The stock was buoyed by official word that the road would report around $1,000,000 net income for June.
manufacturers and other suppliers of merchandise can be held to prices named under existing' contracts if their costs are boosted by upward payroll revisions under the operation of the National Industrial Recovery Act has caused buyers of merchandise throughout the country to push for delivery and stock up more rapidly than would otherwise be the case. This factor is believed to account, in part at least, for the favorable trend of carloadings and manufacturing activity. Large merchandisers, owning their own manufacturing units, may be able to avoid such a stocking up process to some extent.
Many suppliers have pointed out that advance buying from customers is in stock sizes for warehousing, rather than in sizes indicating that immediate sale of goods is anticipated. Merchandisers are w*atchlng the situation closely to determine, if possible, to what extent existing arrangements with low-cost or marginal suppliers of goods will be effected under the Recovery Act.	B
The First Major Setback
Yesterday’s sharp reaction in stocks, most of which came in the last hour of trading, was the first major setback since the long upward march In prices got under way at the start of April. On that day, the industrial average closed at 55.66 and the rail average at 25.06. With only minor checks, the Industrial average was pushed forward to a high' of 96.75 on June 12, and the rail average moved up to 44.41 on June 5, and fractionally above that level to 44.43 on June 12.
Actually, since June 1 the rail average has moved in only a narrow price range, and the carrier stocks have hung back when the rest of the market was strong. While.-the industrial average on June 12 bettered its previous high by an impressive margin, the carrier share average was only two-hundredths of a point above the preceding high. The movement of the rail average had made for a cautious atti-had placed anticipating touched off,
Break Widest Since Upturn Began
The break in stocks was the widest since the long upturn got under way. It carried the Dow-Jones industrial average off 5.19 points, down to 88.87, and the rail average Bagged to 44.41, 2.36 points off on the day. The heaviest losers in stocks were such speculative favorites as Western Union, off 6% on the day and down 14 points from the recent high; J. I. Case, off 6% and 12% from the top, and American Smelting & Refining, off 6% on the day and 9% below the high for the year, set only recently.
After early strength, domestic corporation bonds turned reactionary. A few of the speculative carrier issues set new highs for the advance in the morning trading, and industrial issues ranged upward. A rally in German issues was a feature of the foreign department. Governments were irregular, with changes small.
Wheat closed off 1% to 1% cents a bushel, but corn moved upward. Cotton sold > off as much as $1 a bale early, regained some of the ground lost, and then slumped again, finishing down $2 a bale.
Foreign markets were mixed In Paris, rentes were firm but the rest of the list eased. In London, the bond list was higher, with stocks irregular.
The Railroad Wage Move
The new move by the railroad managements to get a reduction of 22%% in the basic rates of pay to organized labor is fraught with difficulty. While road earnings still are extremely low, and a number of important roads still are in the red, the trend of railroad traffic, and of earnings, has changed for the better. The railroad managements will find it hard to convince labor representatives that wages should be reduced when the railroad picture, generally, is improving.
More important as a factor in the prospec-tiufe negotiations on wages will be the attitude of the Administration. It has indicated repeatedly its hope that wage earners will not suffer any further loss in earning power through pay reductions, and has urged the necessity of passing on to workers a large part of the increased income to industry resulting from, improving business.
The Administration has done much for the railroads. It pushed through the present session of Congress legislation designed to help them, and it has continued the policy of lending money to earners in need to tide them over the difficult times. The railroads, as beneficiaries of that legislation, are bound to take info consideration the Administration’s wishes on such controversial Items as wages.
From the viewpoint of the carrier managements they are fully justified in seeking a 22%% reduction in pay. The 10% wage deduction now in effect does not correspond to the fall* in the price level since 1929. The unorganized railroad employes have suffered heavy reductions in salaries, amounting in some to 50% from the 1929 scale.
Help For the Great Northern
Approval of the Interstate Commerce mission of the $6,000,000 loan to the Northern had been anticipated, for the road had borrowed no funds from government agencies before and, until it was hard hit by the slump in ore traffic, had been among the strongest carriers. The assured success of the Great Northern plan to refinance its July 1 maturity, and the approval of the loan by the Interstate Commerce Commission, puts the road in comfortable shape for the remainder of this year.
Great Northern's revenues have shown a decided improvement in the last two months. Ore has begun to move. If the road has the normal seasonal improvement in traffic in the closing months of the year, it should show its fixed charges covered.
Chrysler Sells Above Motors
For the first time in weeks, Chrysler yesterday sold above General Motors. At the start of 1933, Chrysler around 16 was about throe points above General Motors, but by the close of January Chrysler had dropped back to 13, while General Motors held around that level. In the declining market through February, Chrysler dropped more swiftly than Motors, and at the end of the month General Motors was holding at around 10, with Chrysler at 8.
Motors was the first to get under way with a real advance. On March 31, the stock was selling at 11%, with Chrysler at 8%. Both stocks have had almost uninterrupted advances since that time, with Chrysler more than trebling in Value. Both have benefited from the upturn In motor output, with the resultant sharp gain in earnings.
Stocking up on Goods
The question which has arisen ? as to whether^
cases
tude, market-wise. Many traders stop-loss orders under the market, a setback, and those orders were accelerating "the decline.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies com- ‘ parod with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest	‘
report, and
are not duplicated.		
	Since	Additions
	April 1	Saturday
Decreased earnings . ..		 602	8
Increased earnings . ...	.... 211	4
TJnclianf;ed dividends .	....	740	66
Decreased dividends . .		 60	o
InrYMSpri <iivicionds . . .		 17	1
Initial dividends		.... 6	
Omitted dividends ....	... 8	i
High and	Low Trices	
no stocks made
new low, for
Alpha P Cem Am Mtrrl F pf AmWrltF ct..
Beatrice Cr’m Bkln&Q Tr pf Bklyn Man Tr Bucyru* Kric. Bury Brie pf Chile Copper.. Chryaler . . Consol Oil pf. JluVont 6%<lb Fnunrint'n Co. Gen Bak pf...
the year 1933.
New Hisrhs
Manna M A pf llutl & Man pf Interbom K T nter Cement, nt Ry of <’ A John* Mun pf x>hlsh tul Cl .eh I VConl pf I'Orillard pf..
HaeAndr JU F MacAml&F pf X Y Cent mt., x v shinbUiK. XTShlpbld pf
Fhlla R T pr Shell Trad <*t Spear & Co pt ''honipaon Kta 5% A«M»or ^tdewaterO pf 77rlco Product* "■Hm e Co....
Jnlv I .ent Tob vnnR«l pf «ta M'arnrr Br pf Warren Bro*.
Com-Great
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.