Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 4, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13 _
Abreast of the Market
JHarJcet
Call money renewal........
Time money, 90 days.......
Acceptances, 90 days.*.... Commercial paper..........
Franca, vables........
Sterling cables ..........
New York bank rate...... Reserve System ratio......
Coffee, Rio. December.....
Copper, delivered.........
Corn, December..........
Cotton, December........
Hides, December...........
''Dead, New York.......
Oats. December..,....... Rubber, No. 1 stand'd Doc. Silk. raw. December.......
Silver, New York..........
Sugar, raw, December. ... Tin, December.............
Wheat, December ..........
Wool tops. December.......
Zinc, Eut St. Ixsuls......
Ttiaru
Friday
1933
%%
% ft1 % % %«%% 1%<&%% .0808
4 84% 2%
65.2
1932
1%
%©%*?> .0393%
3.29*1
63.6%
5.83
3
44%
9.62
8.85
4	30
34%
8.03
1 49
40%
1.31
49.15
87%
99 8
4.60
e.2s
26
e.i4
5 IS
3 OO ie 3.39 1.45
27
1.04
22 80
43%
S2.0
3.00
Another crop of rumors of importance might occur in Washington put life into a dull market at the start of the final hour of trading in the closing full session of the week and helped to push stock prices upward. Until this flurry the market had been a desultory affair, with trading Interest at a low ebb. In the main, prices were better, although the gold stocks met selling, in spite of the new high of $32.57 for the yellow metal.
As a group, the carrier shares showed the most notable strength. Great Northern, New York Central, Union Pacific and Southern Railway were in the front of the advance. Westinghouse and General Electric, benefiting from the announcement that the PWA had loaned funds to the Pensylvania for its electrification project, were firm spots. Coppers shook off early heaviness and the steel shares rallied, led by Steel common, up	Allied Chemical
had the widest gain, 5% points among the leaders, with advances elsewhere limited to 3% or less. Trading turned sharply upward in the last 20 minutes, the tape falling behind.
Morning heaviness in the gold stocks was attributed to rumors that Canada might put a tax on the gold mining companies. These were discounted and the group rallied. The railroad shares derived some nourishment from the fact that carloadings in the week ended October 28 showed a smaller decline from the like 1932 week than they had in the immediately preceding week. Strength in grains helped the farm implement shares. No results of the conference between the Administration and the Governors of the five large producing states, discussing farm prices, were made public while the markets were open.
Prices for domestic corporation bonds were irregularly lower. — better States of the which session, lost ground.
Grains closed Just highs.	’ ’	_
1^1 to 2^ cents a bushel. Corn followed, gaining	to 2k. Cotton did little, moving in a
narrow range of prices and gaining only 6 to 8 points.
A few shares were strong in the London *	—	-	-	-	rest of
turned
that
developments
Pennsylvania’s electrification project through to Washington. In 1931, the Pennsylvania contracted with Consolidated Gas Electric Light & Power Co. of Baltimore, Pennsylvania Water and Power and Safe Harbor Water Power Corp, to supply the power required for electrification of the line from the Susquehanna River approximately 75 miles through Baltimore to Washington, and for the Potomac Yards in Virginia. The hydro power already is available, and, when the line is completed, the three companies involved should derive a definite contribution to earning power.
How They Stand
Earnings reports ot leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, ’ Companies reporting on a	‘
Included according to their are not duplicated.
Increased earnings ... Decreased earnings .... Uncahnged dividends .. Resumed dividends .... Decreased dividends ... Increased dividends ... Omitted dividends ..... Initial dividends......
follow, monthly basis are latest	-
Since
Oct. 1
274
118
195
14
3
13
2
4
report, and
Additions yesterday 8
3 8 3
1
Prices
Friday, on the New York Stock
six stocks (Brown Shoe pfd., Devoe & Rayuolds 1st pfd., Freeport Texas cv. pfd., Ludlum Steel pfd., Tide Water Associated pfd. and Van Raalte pfd. sta.) made new highs, and two stocks (Pierce Arrow A and Pierce Arrow new) made new lows, for the year 1933.
High and Low
exchange.
Public utility issues held up than other groups. Weakness in United government obligations was the feature day’s market, staged a rapid
Foreign gold bloc bonds, advance in the previous
a shade under the day’s Wheat led the advance and finished up
market, Dunlop being a feature. The the market was lower. In Faris prices down after early strength.
Slow on K. C. C. Repayment
The indigent railroads which had to from the Railroad Credit Corp, to avert financial difficulty are paying off their loans at a very moderate pace. Some of the big debtors of the R. C. C. are in receivership, while others aren’t yet in position to start paying off their loans, although they are covering their charges now. So far, only 84.502,384 has bee paid back by borrowing carriers, and loan balances, still outstanding, amount to $69,188,984.
Repayments to October 31 constituted 6.1% of the amount borrowed from the corporation by the weak roads. If traffic, through 1934, holds to the level set in the latter half of 1933. substantially heavier be anticipated. The half of the current roads to pay off any the R C. C. to contributing roads affect only the cash position of the carriers. Practically aJl roads included revenues received from the surcharges in their monthly income accounts, as the surcharges were taken in, despite the fact that they had to be paid over to the R. C. C. immediately. If distributions to contributing carriers are substantial next year, cash positions of some of the large contributors to the R. C. C. will be materially improved.
Orders Ahead for Electricals
The two chief beneficiaries of the Pennsylvania’s contemplated expenditures for railroad equipment probably will be Westinghouse and General Electric. The major expenditures contemplated with funds advanced to the road toy the Public Works Administration are $16,850,000 for electrification equipment and materials and $16,250,000 for 132 locomotives. Westinghouse has supplied a large parV-of the electrification equipment already in use on the Penn-slyvania’s lines.
The last important electric locomotive order placed by the Pennsylvania was for 16 engines, constructed in 1931. Westinghouse built nine of these, and General Electric seven. In view of the extensive electrification work undertaken on its lines, a sizable portion of Pennsylvania’s contemplated purchase of 132 locomotives probably will be for electric engines.
Gold Prices and Gold Producers
Reconstruction Finance Corp, gold purchases are certainly aiding the gold producers. For 66,000 ounces purchased, the R. F. C. so far has paid an average price of $31,818, and the price of gold now is up 75 cents an ounce above the average. In the first eight moths of the year. United States Smelting got only an average of $23,759 an ounce for its gold, or $8.06 an ounce less than the average paid so far by the R. F. C. Based on 1932 production. R. F. C. purchases of gold so far have amounted to only 2.6% of a year’s output.
. Government Bonds Sink
Weakness in government bonds, with early losses running to fairly sizable proportions, was the feature of the bond market yesterday. The new Treasury 41/4-3>4 issue, in successive trades, slid down from 100.29 to 100.20, helping to unsettle the whole list. Later loathe day, they fell to even lower ground. Even the most optimistic are discouraged by the fact that less than 40% of the bonds called have been turned In for conversion.
Wire Companies* Business Better
After a sizable slump, business of the two wire companies has shown some improvement in the Inst two weeks. December normally is a good month for Western Union and Postal, as they get a substantial volume of holiday message business.
Electrification Aids Utilities
Three Important utility companies will be among the beneficiaries of completions of the
borrow serious
repayments next year can business level in the first year didn’t permit weak loans. Distributions from
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.