STOCKS RESIST MOVE FOR RISE: INFLATION TALK FAILS TO AID BULLS --STEEL DEM
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 18, 1933; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
STOCKS RESIST
MOVE FOR RISE
Inflation Talk Fails to Aid Bulls —Steel Demand Declines Further
The Week Reviewed
Week’s Active Stocks					
Sales	Stocks:	High	Low Last Chgs.		
4489 0	Chrysler 		52%	43%	51%	7%
2562 0	Commer Solv.	41%	36%	40	3%
1788 0	Cons Oil 		15%	13%	14%	%
3102 0	Gen Motors ..	35%	32	34%	12%
535 0	Int’l Nickel ..	21%	19%	21%	2%
751 0	Kelvinator ....	15%	11%	14%	2%
652 0	Montg Ward..,	. 26%	23%	25%	1%
50800	Nat’l Distil .	.111%	94%	108%	15
92800	Radio Corp ..	9%	8%	9%	%
60200	Stand Brds ..	29%	27%	28	%
Attempts to resume operations for the rise in stocks met with general resistance and little success, except in isolated issues, during the past week. In commodities and specialties, like movies, department stores and alcohol stocks, some progress was made, hut the leaders met persistent offerings on all bulges. Late in the week, the tone was distinctly reactionary.
Ignoring the trade news, which provided little stimulation, bulls kept their attention focused on Washington, and tried to make the most of any Inflationary gesture there. Senator Harrison, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, emerged from a conference with President Roosevelt and declared that if the Administration did not soon take some measures to raise commodity prices. Congress would take the matter Into its own hands when it convened in January.
Rumors of inflation flew back and forth in Wall Street, but there was little tangible on this point, except a growing clamor from the more radical sources. The Administration still seems to be counting upon its drive to extend credit expansion. Plans to lend money at 3% to banks and similar institutions for the purpose of relending to manufacturers under the NBA were announced, and Jesse H. Jones, chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corp., declared that this was Inflation of the best kind —a plentiful supply of credit on easy terms.
Steel Trade Lags
The steel industry showed no change in the past week, with operations, incoming business, Inquiries and specifications continuing the downtrend which developed more than a month ago. There is considerable disappointment over the fact that the anticipated fail demand has failed to develop, because so many felt confident that there would be a decided turn upward after Labor Day.
Consumers of steel, having covered for their nearby requirements, and experiencing a drop in the buying of their own manufactured products, have shown no inclination to enter the steel market with orders.
Steel Ingot production, as compiled by Dow, Jones & Co., 'Inc., was unchanged from the preceding, week at 42%. However, actually this is a reduction, for the earlier period included the shutdowns over Labor Day, and it is apparent that there was further curtailment in the subsequent period. Normally, the week after Labor Day should record a recovery from the preceding period, as mills resume their activities. Steel interests are keeping their production as near the rate of Incoming business as possible, bo that a reversal in the output trend in the future will depend entirely upon larger new orders and increased specifications.
Wheat In Sharp Advance
A more buoyant tone prevailed in Chicago grain markets, with wheat making advances amounting to more than 10 cents a bushel over the previous week’s final quotations. While upturns were frequently checked by profit-taking sales, the wheat market waB at no time subjected to heavy pressure and at times it responded easily to buying from eastern interests on talk of inflation in one form or another.	-
Changes in the wheat situation shown in Washington’s September report were too small to form a major market influence. Ottawa’s official report indicated a total wheat production-for Canada slightly higher than the private forecasts. The crop was put at 282,771,000 bushels, against 428,000,000 harvested in 1932. Improved crop reports from Europe indicated Import requirements for wheat considerably less than last year. ..
Cotton Moves Higher
Cotton futures moved up in irregular fashion, scoring gains that at the highs amounted to nearly $5 a bale from last week's closing level. An abrupt about-face occurred in the domestic cotton goods trade, which experienced a buying movement of major proportions. This found its reflection in large scale purchases of cotton in the futures market. Active buying of, futures came also from the European cotton trade, which regarded sharply higher dollar rates for sterling and tho French franc as a measure of current or prospective inflation in this country.
Seasonal hedge sales were considerable in volume, and were tho main cause of market setbacks, but were probably below normal for this stage of the cotton season. Although no general holding movement has developed, advices from the South indicated a prevalent belief that the Government, either by monetary measures qr some measure directly affecting cotton', would do something to put the market up.
' Dollar’ Declines
A prolonged period of weakness in the dollar finally brought all the gold currencies into new high ground in tho local foreign exchange market by the end of the week. Exchange traders stated that there was very little activity •in the market coming from American commercial interests and that .the local rates reflected largely speculative activity abroad.
Opening the week with a display of strength against the French franc, based on another case of French nerves over the possibility of coming French budget difficulties, the pound advanced rapidly and sterling price of gold •dropped sharply on Monday. The renewal of U. S. inflation talk, however, changed the picture entirely and the pound gave way sufficiently to force intervention by the British Exchange Fund,*
Despite its strength against both ■the dollar and the pound, tho French franc did not give an impressive account of itself. It was at a discount throughout in terms of the other gold currencies and at times dipped ,to tho gold export point. Its weakness was sufficient to cause discussion of possibility of resumption pf gold losses by the Bank.of France to tho other central gold banks.
The domestic price of gold advanced steadily as the dollar dipped. First of the newly mined
gold, aggregating 4,208 fine ounces, was shipped to London in the middle of the week, representing the surplus of newly mined gold over current demand for domestic consumption in arts and industry. It is believed that such exports will increase in the future inastmuch as the Treasury now permits the sole of scrap and old gold to fill commercial needs.
Money and Crodit
Conditions' in the money markets became even easier than recently as the result of currency returning from eariy-month and Labor Day holiday use and the further purchases of government securities by the Reserve Banks. The return of currency during the week amounted to $46,000,000, accounting for most of what went out over Labor Day, while the Reserve Banks acquired $37,000,000 more government obligations in their efforts to build up excess reserves and stimulate credit expansion.
As the result of these two movements, excess reserves of member banks reached the highest total in history at $700,000,000, compared with $600,000,000 in the preceding week and previous record total of $635,000,000 In January, 1933. New York banks alone had $192,000,000 of excess on Wednesday, compared with $149,000,000 the week before.
At the same time, Ioans and investments of New. York bonks. Including commercial Ioans, showed substantial advances over tho preceding week, part of tills boing a normal rebound after the turn of the month. Commercial Ioans, however, advanced for the second week running, indicating that fall credit needs are at last exceeding loan repayments. ■
Timo money cased %% to %% during the week, reaching new lows for recent months, with 90-day money at %% and four months’ loons at %%. Other money rates were unchanged, wjjh nil'divisions of the money market showing ft very easy tone.	"	'
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.