Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 12, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Abreast of
Market Diary		
	■	Monday	
	1033	1932
Call money renewal		%%	2%
Time money, W days......		lti ©>4 ft
Acceptances, 80 days			
Commercial paper			2%
Francs, cabiafi		.0546	.0391%
Sterling cables			3.48%
New York bank rate......	2%%	2%%
TAtlO......	67.0%	50.7%
Coffee. Rio. September....	5.65	7.25
Copper, delivered		6	
Corn. September*.		46'4	23
rVitinn	..........	8.88	•	7.64
Hides,' September	.	10.70	6.50
Lead, New York		4.50	3.60
Oats, September^		37%	15%
Rubber, No. 1 stand’d Sept.	6.91	3.70
Stilt, rew. October		1.75	1.60
Silver, New York..		37	MU
Su^ar, raw, September....	1.54	1.03
Tin, September		44.00	• 23.85
Wheat, September		84%	..	50%
Wool tops, December		10X00	59.80
Zinc, East St Louis		4.65	3.50
A vigorous advance in. the commodity markets encouraged renewed operations for the rise on the New York Stock Exchange at the start of the new week, and prices engaged in a broad upturn. While the pace of trading continued somewhat restricted in scope, there was a firm undertone from the outset -and the forward movement met no serious opposition as the session progressed. •	.	_
Wheat prices were up approximately 3 cents a bushel. Bullishness in the grain pit was attributed in part to tije remarks of Secretary of Agriculture Wallace over the week-end. In a press conference the secretary declared: "Our people are likely to get impatient within the next three months and demand a strong dose of inflation.” This observation, coming from the same person whose remarks on the radio only recently chilled the proponents of inflation, led to renewed speculation on the subject of artificial price raising. The comments of Washington observers, and of Bernard M. Baruch, whose counsel is known to carry weight in the capital, also seemed 'to bring the subject into the foreground again.
Around the cotton ring and .in the grain pit buying orders appeared to run into a market bare of substantial offerings immediately above these levels. No great activity was noticeable in cotton, yet the whisper of inflation led brokers with selling orders to force the bidding higher before executing the contract. Southern selling pressure, which was much In evidence during the past week, dried up suddenly.	'
Fortified with this weapon, the mere mention of which Beems sufficient to generate speculative life, the markets awoke from their slumbers of the past week and pushed progressively forward. Alcohol Issues, rails and industrials participated in the 'movement. Chrysler led the motors with a new high price for the year.
Following the weakness of late last week, foreign exchange currencies rallied rather sharply against the dollar. The franc showed a marked recovery, but met some selling again late in the afternoon in this market.
The bond market was featured by strength in United States government issues, and by a rally in corporation and rail issues in the late trading. Traction bonds were active and strong before thp close.
Heavy Industries Need Help
Sentiment appears to be veering toward the producer of capital goods, who has been largely neglected recently. The consumer appears to be well taken care of under provisions of the NRA.
the Market ,
Moreover, recent figures on sales of the chain and -retail stores have been among the brighter spots in the business news. The way sales have soared above a year ago indicates no inability on the part of the public to buy merchandise.
Many feel that what is needed now is stimulation for the producer of heavy goods. Some sources close to the Administration apparently share this view and are reported to be actively working to further this object. Some plan of financial assistance may be devised to stimulate production of heavy lines.
The recent statement of L. A. Downes, president of the Illinois Central Railroad, that “we never haVe hard times when the railroads are able to spend money freely" may point the way to one method of stimulating the heavy industries. .
Persistent Strength In Oil Stocks -
During reactionary tendencies In the general market lately the oil stocks have shown independent strength and appear to have met with more confident buying than any other group. Despite many objections to the NRA code provisions which developed within the industry, the majority'of the producing companies appear to be working out of a demoralized price situation with conspicuous success.. Aided by a fairly constant demand for its product, the oil trade appears somewhat better situated than other lines at the moment, at least in so far as the workings of the code are concerned. Many anticipate a marked improvement in earnings of the leading companies.
National Cash Register’s New Line
With Tetail trade . improving, National Cash Register Co. has introduced its new line of machines at an opportune time. The new machines have been under development for a year and a half and the date for Introduction was set long before business turned upward, the early fall being the logical time under any circumstances.
The NRA is proving to be an unexpected help to the cash register field in general. Store hours are being curtailed and pressure to speed up sales in existing hours has been intensified. Individual sales efforts are being stressed, which in turn favors segregation of sales records. The current trend to sales taxes also requires an accurate check on sales. The new line of cash registers, according to the company’s announcements, incorporate many new features adapted to such uses.
Short Interest In Market Negligible
New York Stock Exchange figures on the short interest in the market as of August 31 throw some light on the erratic price fluctuations which have taken place recently on relatively little volume. The short interest on that date totaled 901,999 shares, a decline of 70,614 from a month previous and a record low. With the market in a position to be galvanized into action at a moment's notice through the use of some of the recovery weapons, which are all at the Administration's disposal, few with bearish inclinations have had the temerity to risk short sales. Such short selling as has taken place has been mostly di the hedge variety, against purchases elsewhere. United States Steel common has been a favorite vehicle for this type of selling recently. ’
Patino Mines* Business Improves
Deliberate interference with the laws of supply and demand seldom has proved successful, and there, is a strong prejudice against such action, both by economists and businessmen. Three governments, nevertheless, have managed to do pretty well in regulating tin production. Currently selling at 45 cents to 46 cents a pound,
tin is well above the low of 18 cents, reached in 1332.
Patino Mine*. is a tin producer that has benefited by the deliberate restrictions on tin output While attempts at estimating Patino’s earnings are rendered difficult by fluctuations in sterling exchange, mining engineers here are optimistic on its prospects and are predicting a marked improvement in earnings.	-
The unusual activity of tin plate mills has been an important factor in increasing demand for pig tin in this country, which is an important importer of tin.
August Business Dips to June Level
The volume of production and trade declined in August to approximately the June level, according to Barron’s Index prepared by Warren M. Persons. This index, one of the earliest composite estimates available, showed a decline of 6.7 points in August to 76.1, compared with the July index of 82.8. This index is adjusted for seasonal variations, but not for secular trend.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are Included according to their latest	’
report, and
are not duplicated.	Since Julyl	Additions Yesterday
Increased earnings		388	..
Decreased earnings ......	291	
Unchanged dividends 		553	8
Decreased dividends		8	
Increased dividends		51	1
Deferred dividends				1	
Omitted dividends		5	
High and Low	Prices	
one stock made
a
Allas Tack.. Chrysler' .... Collins & Atk Colam Pict ct Melville Shoe.
Monday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 15 stocks made new highs and	’	'
new low, for the year 1933.
New Highs OmnlbQB pf A Penney (J C) Pierce Arr pf Pare OH.....
Scnb Oil (Del) New Low
Spear a Co pt Spleffd May 8 fhninpiion Pro TMewatcrO pt Call Dyew pf
Vnlted Drnr.,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.