Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 14, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Market
Call money renewal........
•Time money. ®0 days..,.. Acceptances, 90 days......
Commercial paper. ....... francs, cables ...........
Sterling cables.........
New York. bank rate.......
Reserve Byvlem ratio......
Coffee. Hlo. December..... Copper, delivered........
Com, December.............
Cotten. December.......... Hides. December ..........
Dead, New York............
Oat*. December.......	.
Rubber. No. 1 stand’d Dec. SHk. raw. October.........
Silver. New York..........
Sugar, raw. December .... Tin, December. ...	....
Wheat, December...........
Wool top*, December. .. . Zinc. East st. Louis.. . .
Ufiary
Friday
1933
% flj
S « *4 *
.0567
4 54
W.7%
5 <1
6
39 ^k
9.18
a S5
4.&0
COM
7.SO
X 54
37t»
1.22
46 60
78
ST 7
4.75
commodities
markets, liking* of
Stiff declines m the particularly in grains, weren’t to the traders and investors in stocks, and the list dropped to lower ground at the resumption of trading after the Columbus Day holiday. The Government's conversion offer on a part of the Fourth Liberty 4?4s helped to boost the bond market, but it put a final quietus on inflation talk, for the Ume being, and led to selling of both grains and stocks. In the stock market, the big losers were the metal shares, the alcohol stocks, and the farm equipment issues. The losses in some of the fast moving stocks reached to as much as five points. Trading continued to be dull.
Spectacular strength in the dollar in the foreign exchange markets was one of the features of the day. Against both sterling and continental gold currencies the dollar rallied strongly, as shorts covered commitments. Against sterling, the dollar was up more than 13 cents.
The routine reports on the current trend of business didn't cheer the speculative mind. Carloadings, for the October 7 week, were lower than the previous week, and the percentage gain over the like 1932 week was smaller. Sales reports from some of tho leading chain store and mail order houses were a disappointment. While Secretary Woodin, over the holiday, held out high hopes for a near-term announcement of importance from the Government, it didn't spur stocks at all.
Bonds were strong from the opening gong, the domestic corporation list moving ahead in more active dealings. The best performers were the high-grade Issues, and even second-grade railroad bonds were in demand. Foreign bonds slumped, and Government issues were lower.
From the outset the grain market was weak, and prices slumped steadily as trading progressed Wheat closed off the 5-ccnt maximum permitted for one day’s trading, and there were heavy losses in the coarse grains, although they did not break the maximum allowed for a day’s trading. Cotton lost $1 to $1.50 a bale.
The markets abroad did better. In London, rayon and textile shares were strong, and there was a good demand for other leading stocks. In Pans, the list was quiet, with rentes strong.
Success of Treasury Move Assured
The fact that more than 50r; of the $6.268.000 000 outstanding Fourth Liberty 41 + s are held by banks assures success of the Treasure’s conversion offer and indicates that the now 3’1% issue should be oversubscribed as a result of bank conversions alone. The conversion offer is attractive to bankers, and there is general expectation that banking institutions will seek to shift most of their holdings into the new issue.
Heavy over-subscription to the conversion offer might lead the Treasury to exchange more of the Fourth 4’.is than contemplated m the announcement. Instead of converting S1.875.-000,000. the total might be raised to around $2,300,000,000, if applications for the shift were numerous enough. It isn’t considered probabie that any larger conversion would be regarded as wise, due to the fact that several large government issues mature close to the maturity date of the new issue.
There are ing the scope the Treasury 3 ’,4 % bonds
times and the total of the issue was raised to $835,000,000.
Natural Gas Tax Up in Texas
While the natural gas business has been aided by higher all prices and an increase m consumer demand, ns pointed out by H. L Dickerson, vice president of United Gas Corp . such a measure nt> is now under consideration in Texas doesn’t help the industry. A committee of the Texas House has reported favorably a measure to put a tax of one cent on each 1.000 feet of natural gas produced within the state, and the tax is to be paid by the producer.
Officials of the NRA were the first to suggest that agitation for a tax on natural gas to offset the competitive advantages gained by tho fuel as result of the increased costs of coal, due to the adoption of the code.
Store Sales Reports Mixed
Sales reports from a number of store companies which made their appearance yesterday were mixed They did not indicate any general pick-up in moss purchasing power, and one or two were a good deal leas cheering than had been anticipated. The Sears-Roebuck figure©, covering the four weeks to October 8. recorded an increase in sales of 8% over the like period Df 1932, hut that was a much smaller gain than was scored in the previous four-week period.
Another aspect of the Sears sales figures was disappointing. In 1932 sales for the Xour-wecks ended October 8 were up 27% from the previous four-week period. This year the sales for the period were only 16% greater than those for the previous four weeks The volume trend for Sears is upward, ns it should be at this season of the year, but the company is contending with higher coats, which amount to around $450,000 a month, according to authoritative estimates.
Neither the tonnage nor the dollar sales ot A. & F. offered much encouragement. Dollars sales in the four weeks ended September 30, were down 4.6% from the corresponding weeks of 1932, and the fall	*	* ’ ■*
to 8.7%.
Kroger Grocery
figures offer a little greater cause for hope to those constructively inclined, ’	*	‘ '
weren't as brilliant showings as some had anticipated.
Banka Not Tightening t’p on Stock Ixiarna Rumors were abroad in the financial community yesterday that the New York banks were tightening up on their collateral loan requirements, but a little inquiry showed that the rumor had no foundation. Since in the forepart of July the banks wrote down the value of some of the high-fliers in the market as col-
lateral for loans, particularly the alcohol stocks, there has been virtually no change in collateral loan requirements. Far from having tightened up on collateral loan requirements, banks are quite willing to make Ioans to put sbme of their idle funds into use.
Wheat Open Interest Rig
In spite of large losses chalked up in grains, the open interest in wheat continues to be of unwieldy proportions. The slump yesterday probably pared down, but not extensively, the total of roughly 158,000,000 bushels at the start of the day. The open interest now is regarded in some quarters as being made up of stale long accounts which constitute a threat to prices. In others, the view is held that the open interest in grains is in strong bands and won't be disturbed.
How They Stand
Earnings reports or leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest are not duplicated.
report, and
numerous precedents for enlarg-of such an operation. In August offered $300,000,000 in -eight-year The issue was oversubscribed six
Additions yesterday 10 3 13
Since Oct. 1 32 20
64
5
1
2 Prices
Friday, on the New York Stock lour stocks made new highs and one stock made a
Increased earnings........
Decreased earnings ....... Unchanged dividends ...... Resumed dividends ........
Decreased dividends ...... Increased dividends.......
High. and Low
1
Exchange.
new low, for the year 1933.
New Highs
Muytajr 1st pf ' White Bock n / VanBal pt LJ 8 Tobacco
New Low
Boantho Fl pt
In tannage sales amounted
and Simmons Co. sales
but even they
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.