Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 20, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
k „j	>*	u»r«'“*’Trw
Market Diary
Call awoey reaewal........
Time iaoc«y, 90 daye.'..... ACCTtlgrW, 90 dAX4....... Commercial paper......... Beanes. eablee .....v..... JlJlUwy c&b]*a .....a...... TTew York basic rate.....^ Tt.mni System ratio......
1933 .
K*
•0«O6%
4.79 U
M.8%
">•. Xtto, December..... per. delivered..........	7.30 9	<28 9
i. September..........	76H	50
	32.58	10.10
Be. * September..........	8.40	11.00
4	Naw York.. ....		3.70	
r. September		52 St	381*
ber. stead'd No. 1 Dec.	15.23	7.90
. raw. October. 				1.1OH	1.83
—, T»ew York		49	*	409*
. raw, December		1.86	1-58
September			51.10	46.75
U September.........	1.03 Va	93 U
tope. December......	77.6	106.0
_ 3CaSt 8t_ TAtti.......	4.00	4.75
Weeks of declining tendencies and an overcrowded short interest provided the basis for a sharp rebound in stock prices yesterday, ranging from 1 to 5 points in the active leaders. There were no special new developments to spur trading, -but volume expanded -a little to around 560,000 shares from 530,000 shares on the preceding day.
Aggressive leadership in th£ oils aided tbe rise. Large blocks of Socony-Vacuum appeared r>r> the tape at rising prices in the early after-i at a time when the general market seemed avc exhausted its strength. Other oils re-ided with activity and higher prices. Flsere, most progress was noted in stocks which suffered most in the recent decline, such as :d Chemical, Union "Pacific, Steel preferred some of the silver and mining issues. Free-Texas was an exception to the trend, drop-nearly three points on talk of a reduction jc dividend rate. The general market closed at around the best levels of the day.
On the Curb recoveries were most marked in specialties and comparatively feeble in utilities. Hollinger Gold was a strong feature with •a 1%-point gain.
Bonds gave their best performance in weeks, -40 issues advancing more than %-point on the day. U. s. Governments were higher generally.
Commodity prices lagged, largely on the disappointing trend in world markets. Grains lost around 1 cent a bushel and cotton was 11 to 16 points lower.
terials. Codes have worked some hardship on motor makers tor previously they obtained discounts on steel and lumber because of their volume orders. Motor men complained bitterly of this t-rantment, for they have been working on a pretty close profit margin. Ford has gone so far as to build a steel plant which will have a capacity equal to 15% of all the steel turned out for the motor trade in 1933.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports ot leading companies, compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with tbe previous declarations. follow: Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their report, and are not duplicated:
, Increased, earnings......
Decreased earnings .......
Unchanged dividends ...... Increased dividends ....... Reduced dividends . /_____
Accumulated dividends_____
Resumed dividends ........
Omitted dividends..........
Initial dividends.........
High and Low "Wednesday, on the New York
Street Relieved But Sees Rally As Technical
. Yesterday’s market was a reflection of the intense gloom which has pervaded Wall Street for weeks. Out of this fatalistic atmosphere and a-short interest uncomfortably large considering the size of the market came the recoil which lifted prices sharply. It was not careful investment buying which reached for the leaders two points above the previous close, traders felt, and generally they have not changed their opinions much. There is considerable relief that the lows have not been immediately tested.
Wall Street Senses Real Progress in the Oils
The Street is more bullish on the oils and '“ms to sense that this time real efforts are ng made along a wide front to correct sev-1 bad situations. On Monday a Congressional oxnittee was informed authoritatively that overablc petroleum reserves may be esti-_ted at 12,250,000,000 barrels. Production for 133 was around 903,600,000 barrels, or 7%% of that amount. This year production may run to 925,000,000 barrels or more. This situation has been known for some time, of course, but it seems to have struck the national consciousness at the moment with tremendous force.
The weak spot currently is in gasoline stocks. Crude supplies are below a year ago, but the inventory of gasoline is more than twice last year’s total. Major producers have ar-—nged to buy distress gasoline at a rate which should clean up the excess supply by the end of the year. In the meantime strong efforts are ■under way to stop the flow of *’hot’’ oil. Realiz-
$ ing the possibility of conflict over “states’ rights” the government is reported to be hoping for joint action by California. Texas and “ Oklahoma in enforcing regulation. Meanwhile, ! through new tax regulations the government £ believes it has developed a system for checking ’ on tbe source and legality of refiners’ crude.
Since	Additions
July 1	yesterday
400	3
272	2
638	19
53	3
11	1
29	2
19	
. 8	
4	
• Prices	
Stock Exchange, four stocks made new highs and 13 stocks de new lows, for the year 1934.
New Highs
Coe* Cola A..	1 rUxlil Co....	,
McLellan SCOT I Soot t IMoer I
New Lows
Airway KI An	Midland f» pl	I
Baah Tro Ob	National Steel J
CAPItla 7 <td	S**nhandlo pt.	]
s-reep’t T.X*.	Peorta A
Interna*! Shoe	Porto B—A TA	>
Railroad Sec. United Biscuit Warner Br pf
i
I
I
i
Supply and Demand Laws Still Function Under Inflation
The hue and cry for inflation continues despite the demonstrated difficulties of producing recovery in this manner. Some assume that the only obstacle to further inflation is the government financing due in the next 60 to 90 days. But aside from any question over the long terra dangers of inflation, events here to date raise the question whether the near term benefits by and large are worth while. The rise in the cost of living, without any material reduction in the unemployment ranks, produces a situation which in itself should cause caution before further gold raising schemes are attempted. Labor is not asleep to this condition and there is reason to suppose the Administration recognizes the need for restraint.
Unfortunately, such inflation as has now taken place has not repealed the law of supply and demand. The farmers are better off but this partly is due to crop curtailment and government handouts. Tbe prices of railroad securities are practically right where they started and the problem of railroad debt is still pressing.
Business on Pacific Coast Exceptionally Good
One bright spot in the country can be found on the Pacific Coast. This is shown in power output figures, where consumption recently has been running ahead of a year ago and substantially ahead of the rest of the country. The West Coast has been enjoying its best year since 1930 in the fruit, vegetable and fish canning line. tAst week power consumption ran 9.2% ahead of 1933.
Tbe Central Industrial section, which takes 30% of the total load, declined 3.9% last week. New England was down. 11.6%, no doubt influenced by the strike. Tbe Southern region was 4.4% under a year ago.
General Motors and Chrysler Push Drive for Sales
It would be easy to become too enthusiastic over a few of the auto sales figures which have been released recently. Not long ago Chrysler reported the largest weekly sales in its history ___14,820 units for the week ended September -»_»,.<.]£ reported the best sales in four years
lrst 10 days of September, or 1,780 units 1,249 in tbe like period a year ago. situations accounted for both showings. - intensified a special sales drive in the reported, and Buick has widened the nge ot its cars to include one in tbe
_____.rice range, which has helped sales re------tly.
Automobile sales on the whole appear to be running somewhat less than a year ago. In addition, coats have gone up on labor and ma-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.