RAILS IN LEAD OF SHARE RISE: PROSPECT OF DOLLAR STABILIZATION A ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 22, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2	, . ,
RAILS INJLEAD
OF SHARE RISE
The constructive interpretation placed on the President’s monetary program supplied the impetus for a forward movement in stocks during the week just closed which enabled the market to surmount the difficult barrier of the December highs. Led by the railroad stocks, the list pushed forward in a resumption of heavy trading which saw a number of stocks carried to the hlfirhest nrice since 1931.
While the rise in prices for stocks cheered the financial community, there was no disposition to minimize the possible adverse influences which the market might have to face. Such matters as the possibility of legislation designed to regulate the securities markets, a falling off in government payments to workers now employed on Civil Works Administration projects and the high ratio of current prices of stocks to current earnings were in the background, temporarily, but may be brought to the fore at any time. The rise was characterized by more restraint, therefore, than have been the two most recent major upswings in stock prices.
The President’s monetary program. Involving devaluation of the dollar to 60 cents, with the possibility of a further cut to 50 cents, is a compromise which has drawn support from varying shades of monetary’ opinion. If enacted by Congress, and there is every reason to hold the view that it will be pushed through, a basis will be laid for a wide expansion in credit. There isn’t any assurance that this expansion will bring any major increase in the use of credit, but the prospect of stabilization of the currency, at least between a fairly narrow range, has cheered the business element.
A continuation of the more encouraging bust- ■ ness news has provided a helpful background for the market- The sizable percentage gains over the corresponding period of 1933 being shown by carloadings and weekly electric output figures have brought buying into both groups, although it should be well recognized by this time that comparisons are being made with a period in which business was at a very low’ level. Widening consumer buying is helping chain store companies, and the general level of industrial output i^ ccrrinuing the gradual upward movement v 'it*. 's" .nder way in No- : vember.
Steel T.i*bi>«'i«< f *v -.pu’WMflv .-Uin’-p
Steel r.c:.-for this tir-x. beginning .J.t pacity cor. u The impe u * trend whic: v-. greater tfa^.r. «;
The aiirr.r,-
slow in he, neuwsuutc modeh. Ir. expected ix Prob ibh aside from ft seems lik years railro; products. 1 fastenings, ' ment daily, t car^ and loe Refine* lr.g ruli-cac. cqui scrap and o‘. ngair were st mg markets.
i

(
b- nt Holds
o'-	■: p-j 4
. Lhn -i i v. ne V. asbn gtor .	7 ,o’
V	utrt' 1'
reactions or.
id the close c.
An advance was the respon*-- o developments ai touched 91% cer.t: fore the advai.;' taking. Modena buying, and to-market was only fractionally bclov tue top quotations.
Accounting largely for the firm und'’-*a''v in wheat was a continued strengthening of the cash wheat position, and a situation in tie wheat belt of the West and Southwest which contained all the makings of a crop scarce later in the growing season. Drought complaints from a large area in Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas increased, and the government weekly report described the condition of the crop in those sections as generally poor.
Cotton Recedes From Tops
A run-up of $2.50 a bale in cotton futures at the start of the week carried the market to the highest level since August, 1930. The December, 1934, delivery touched 12.11 cents a pound, first time for 12-cent cotton to appear on the quotation board for futures since July 20, 1933. Subsequently the market receded in irregular fashion, at one time breaking back to the previous week’s closing level.
Monetary developments, particularly the advance in the RFC gold price to $34.45 from $34.06 an ounce, formed the mainspring for the price jump in cotton. The subsequent reaction ‘was caused by heavy sales to realize profits, also selling attributed to the AAA, which continued to dispose of futures forming part of the option pool, amounting originally to 2,400,000 bales.
Foreign Exchanges Chaotic
The Administration’s monetary moves threw the exchange market into a wild state of confusion which lasted throughout the week. At first, the dollar sank rapidly until it appeared to be only a matter of time before the 60-cent level would be an actuality in the exchange market.
Then it was seen that sterling was not advancing as rapidly as the gold currencies and it became apparent shortly afterwards that a strong demand for dollars was setting in • This led to considerable short covering which, coupled with commercial buying of dollars, repatriation of American funds on a small scale and flow of foreign funds here for investment in the American security markets, offset the American purchases of gold abroad. These apparently are continuing on a heavy scale. The first two days of buying by the Federal resulted in a net acquisition of $4,319,000.
Canadian insurance companies and invest** rrtent trusts were understood to be heavy sellers of sterling, and played an active part in forcing sterling down to $4.95, the first time that the pound was under $5 since November 8. They were also selling Canadian dollars, which dipped to a discount of 1*6%.
Sterling futures and by the end of 90-day sterling had only 2% cents, as
wihch had ruled previously.
continued under pressure, the week the premium on dropped to a premium of compared with 6^ cents American bonks
are understood to have been persistent buyers of forward dollars.
Money and Credit
Excess reserves of member banks advanced slightly further during the week ended Wednesday, gaining perhaps $10,000,000 from the preceding week and totaling around $925,000,000. The New York City reporting member banks had $132,000,000 of the total, against $174,000,000 the week before.
The total	prevented from rising by a
larger amount by Treasury withdrawals of deposits. This affected the New York banks particularly; they reported a drop of $50,000,000 in government deposits, together with a rise in reserve requirements, consisting of $75,000,000 in demand deposits.
The currency return amounted to $41,000,000 in the period, contrasting sharply with the same week of 1933 when withdrawals from banks, which culminated m the banking crisis, were becoming apparent in a rising currency total. In addition to the Treasury withdrawals, a small reduction of discounts and bills bought in the open market contributed to holding down the rise in excess reserves.
The money markets were almost featureless during the week. At the end of the period, time money-weakened slightly for short maturities. Otherwise, there"were no changes in rates. Activity was at a low level, with bill discount houses reporting that their volume of transactions in the past few days has been perhaps the lowest in several years.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.