Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 18, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
up service generally means less work for railroad employes. As long as labor insists that employment on the railroads must be kept above a certain level, proposals for mergers and unifications rim up against an Insuperable barrier.
Market	Diary	
Call money renewal		Thursday 1934	3933
Time money. 90 day*		**	
Acceptances. 90 day*		A”-	
Commercial paper.........	IV	1	**	2 U
Trane*. cable*				.0662	.0453**
St er Uns cable*				5 11^	3.90
Mew York bank rate			3%
Reserve System ratio			68.8^	67 1%
Coffee. Rio. July			8 33	5 55
Copper, delivered..........	Rh	7
Corn. July	........	5n\*	46X*
Cotton. July				11 55	S 58
Hide*, September..........	JO 20	21 20
Lead, New York		4 25	3 65
Oat*. July		35	25
Rubber. No. I «tand*d July	13 09	4 87
Silk. raw. July		1 27	1 45
Silver, New York		44*.	w 32 ’-j
Sugar, raa, Julj		1 52	1 35
Tm. July	  ......	53.15	33 30
Wheat. July			89'-.	72
Wool top*. July			89 1	74.3
Zinc. East St, Looi*		4.35	3 75
Overnight announcement that the President and the silver bloc Senators were in agreement on silver legislation brought higher prices for the metal stocks in yesterday’s early trading. Strength in the silver, copper and gold shares was communicated to the rest of the list, and the whole market rallied with a considerable show of vigor. All groups shared in the advance, but the widest upswings were in the metal stocks. U. S. Smelting. Howe Sound. American Smelters and Phelps Dodge were the leaders, the first named running up 7^ points. Rubber company shares were strong as a group, and the oils scored a brisk rise. Steels advanced, with U. S. Steel up 2th, and motors turned strong. Railroad shares continued to move forward and the utilities ranged upward.
After extreme dullness during the morning, trading volume expanded as prices rose, the tape togging behind floor transactions during the fourth hour, when stocks were extremely strong. Preferred stocks shared in the upswing. Volume for the day reached 1,290.000 shares, against 720,000 Wednesday, and leaders were up from 1 to 71-s points at the finish.
While the legislation proposed as result of the agreement apparently is not mandatory, it does include a declaration of policy in favor of including silver to the extent of 25ro in the currency base. Such a move is inflationary and it was enough to bring into the market a renewed demand for “inflation” stocks. Short covering helped to send the market forward, once the rally got really under way.
In addition to the news from Washington, other items, bearing on business, were cheering Anaconda reported a profit for the first quarter, and Nickel showed the largest gross earnings fym operations for any first quarter in its history. Labor troubles still are threatening, and there are numerous other difficulties which becloud the outlook, but they were temporarily overlooked.
Prices for speculative bonds moved ahead in a fairly active market, and the general corporation list was higher. High-grade issues, however, didn’t do as well as the second-grade obligations. United States Government issues were steady*.
Commodity prices worked upward. Wheat Jed the advance in grains, finishing up % to 1 cents a bushel. The close was almost 1 cent under the day’s high. Cotton was lifted almost $1 a bale, and silver and rubber futures were sharply higher.
In the London market, oil and mining shares gained ground. In Pans, the list was firm in quiet trading.-
Nickel Tops 1929 Quarter Earnings
International Nickel is one of the few major companies whose stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange to report earnings in the nrst quarter of 1934. in excess of the corresponding period of 1929. the previous high-water mark. Earnings from operations in the past three months were $7,463,766, against $7,391,660 ir. the comparable quarter of 1929. Net income
’in the first quarter of this year of $5,049,276 was roughly $550,000 less than in the like period of 1929, due to the fact that “other income” in the period five years earlier was much greater, and charge-offs less.
Nickel’s ability to score such a dynamic comeback, and to top its earning power in the first quarter of 1929, is proof of assertions made in regard to the expanding use of the -metal. Even in 1933, hardly a good year for industry in general, nickel consumption was 699c of its use in 1929, the peak year. While the United States is Nickel’s biggest customer, the company has benefited from the trade Improvement the world over, particularly in Great Britain. Better prices for copper and expansion in copper production in Canada, too, have helped. Copper output in Canada for March was up to around 31,000,000 pounds, against 24,515,502 in February.
Anaconda, turning in the first quarterly report in its history, showed no such brilliant earnings comeback as Nickel, but it was in the black in the first three months. As far as can be gauged, current business for the copper companies isn’t in as high volume as it was during much of the first quarter, or during April.
Utility Shares Turn Upward
Ever since May 7, utility stocks have been turning in a better performance than other groups, in spite of all the disturbing news on rate reductions, taxation and other items calculated to upset security holders. The utilities were the first group to break out of their trading range, their move coming about a week ahead of the precipitate decline in both the industrials and the railroad shares which, carried both groups b'How the long trading range. Since May 7, the Dow-Jones utility average has fluctuated in a range of less than 1 point, and now is pointing upward While technical students of the market do not generally include the movement of the utilities in their calculations, the swings in that group are watched for clues as to the neai-term trend. The recent performance of the group has strengthened the views held by* those who arc still optimistically inclined that the market is in process of forming a base.
A modicun. of comfort was offered to holders of securities in utility companies in the TV A area by David Lilhenthal yesterday in his speech at the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks session. Mr. L-illicnthal insisted that the Authority would not duplicate existing facilities “until every reasonable alternative has been exhausted,” and stressed the Authority’s determination “to respect prudent investment in useful property.” The only trouble with the latter statement is that some properties, in which there was prudent investment, were useful at one time and no longer are considered in that category. Traction lines, particularly, come under this head, and some utility companies in. the TVA area have traction properties as well as power systems
Substituting One for Four
The barrier*- to railroad consolidation which have prevented the four-party plan for the east from being pushed will work just as effectively* to prevent consummation of the new scheme proposed by A. J. County*, vice president of the Pennsylvania, for unification of all the roads in the eastern territory*. The major barrier continues to be the attitude of labor, and the clause in the 1933 Railroad Act which stipulates that railroad employment must not be permitted to fall under the average for the month of May, 1933	-
Railroad unifications are bound to bring a reduction m rail employment. If the railroads are to survive, they must not only reduce their debt burden, as labor insists, but they must also pare down expenses and operate on the most efficient basis possible. Elimination of competing lines, unification of terminal services and cutting down terminal expenses, and speeding
A. T. & T. Objections to Code
Two of the bases for the A. T. & T.’s opposition to a code proposed for the communications industry by’ the National Recovery Administration are direct thrusts at the cardinal tenets of the measure. The company pointed out that imposition of the code would mean higher rates, which constitute a burden on the consumer. Adoption of codes for other industries has meant higher prices, and those higher prices have resulted in consumer resistance Higher rates certainly* would be likely* to have a similar effect on the use of the telephone. The company also insisted that a code would adversely affect employes. That would be a logical sequence if, as the company apparently anticipates, higher rates mean a lower volume of business.
* Widest Gain In Four Months
Yesterday's advance of 3 25 in the industrial average to a close of 95.98 was the second widest of the year to date, exceeded only by* the upturn on January 15. That spurt sent the industrial average to 103.19 from the previous close of 98.66, an upturn of 4.53.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies, compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
	Since April 1	Additions Yesterday
Increased earnings ....	....	563	10
Decreased earnings . ,..		 171	1
Unchanged dividends ..	289	16
Tnrtronsprt dividends . . . .	....	25	1
Accumulated dividends	. . . . .1^	1
Omitted dividends	. . .	”,	1
Reduced dividends . . .	. . . .	7	1
Tnitinl rilvidflnric 		. . . . 1	
Resumed dividends	.	. . . 12	1
High and Lou Trier*
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, three stocks made new highs and five stocks made new lows, for the year 1931.
New Highs		
Gen Milla pf.. 1	FubSerEAG p< ; New Lows	| W ret on E I A
Rt<e1ow Ranfd | Bucyru* E 7pf i	Intnnd Steel.	' Nut Jli*cott .	,	’ rut* Steel pf.
I
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.