PRESIDENT BACKS EXCHANGE BILL: SUGGESTS CHANGES MEASURE SLATED FOR
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 8, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
PRESIDENT BACKS EXCHANGE BIEL
Suggests Changes — Measure Slated for Both Houses on Friday
From THZ Wall SmECT	WasXinffton Bureau
From Tub Wall stkkkt Jol'kml -Washington Bureau WASHINGTON—Stock market regulation legislation was discussed by President Roosevelt and a group of Congressional leaders at a White House conference hastily summoned Wednesday afternoon.
Tbe conference followed by a few hours announcement of the Senate banking and currency committee that a bill proposing licensing of the exchanges, in addition to some specific propos-aJs touching pools, specialists, and marginal trading, would be introduced Friday by Senator Fletcher, chairman of the committee, and that hearings would be started immediately thereafter.
Early in the day word from the White House was lhat the President would confer on market regulation the last of this week or the first of next. However, late in the day Chairman Fletcher of the Senate banking committee. Representative Rayburn (Texas), chairman of the House interstate commerce committee; Secretary of Commerce Roper and Ferdinand Pecora. counsel for the Senate committee, were called to the White House. Mr. Pecora was called from a conference of committee experts who were drafting the stock market regulation legislation.
Some Question on Commodity Exchange®
The President took a band in the situation after the close of the financial markets. Those who were called went to the White House proper instead of to tbe executive ofiSccs.
After the conference Mr. Pecora repeated previous statements as to the scope of the bill, said that commodity exchange recommendations might not be included in tbe bill, and that the bill would not seek investment control.
Representative Rayburn also said it was undecided whether provision for regulation of commodity exchanges should be included in the present bill.
The conference, he said, discussed the general provisions of the bill. A statement concerning it will be made by himself and Senator Fletcher when the bill is introduced Friday.
Enactment by Spring Predicted
Enactment of the legislation by tbe coming spring at the latest was predicted by Mr. Raybum. He added that the President is m accord with the general principles and the scope of the proposed measure.
Suggestions were offered by the President for incorporation in the final draft, it was understood, and Mr. Pecora immediately left for a hotel room where he and his associates were engaged m the drafting work.
It was said at the White House that the conference Wednesday should be regarded as a preliminary one, and that there were no accords or discords.
Senator Fletcher said* “Tbe President invited me to the White House for the purpose of discussing legislative action regarding stock exchanges There will probably be introduced next Friday both in tne House and Senate a bill on that subject. Such a bill has been under preparation for some days and it is hoped that we will get a final draft completed by next Friday.” Incorporation** of Exchanges Not Provided
Explaining generally what tbe bill will contain, Counsel Pecora, for the committee, stated that the Federal Trade Commission will be the supervisory agency to regulate stock market activities and that all exchanges of the nation will be required to register at the Commission.
No provision will be carried in tbe bill requiring incorporation of the exchanges. The bill will deal with listing of activities; margin transactions: pool operations and specialists.
One provision would prohibit brokers from dealing in securities for their own account which they handle for customers.
Pool operations, according to Counsel Pecora. would be prohibited. There is a difference of opinion on this question, he states, pointing that some feel that syndicate operations to stabilize the price of a flotation until disposal is completed should be permitted as a legitimate business.
The question of publicity is also dealt with in the bill, which would give the F. T. C. broad powers to require accounting from newspapers publishing misinformation.
Limitations on Specialists
The bill would prohibit a specialist from having apy interest in stocks of his specialty and would prohibit his disclosure to others of any information respecting the stocks in which he specializes.
The F. T. C. authority would extend to margin requirements. The Commission would have power to raise and lower these requirements to fit varying market and credit conditions. Framers of the proposed bill regard this as a flexible arrangement, which would obviate the rigidity connected with setting margin requirements in the act itself.
The committee counsel said that the important feature of the bill was its provisions for establishment of a federal agency with broad powers to supervise and control the dealing in securities on the various stock exchanges. The specific prohibitions, he points out, are incidental to the agency set-up.
■	Repeal Stock Probe Next Week
Hearings will be opened next week on stock exchange practices, it was announced. Tbe committee^ first consideration will deal with the pool operations in certain so-called repeal stocks during the Hummer and fall of 1933. This will be followed by a general hearing on stock market practices and will include the calling of officials of the exchanges.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.