Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 11, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Abreast of the
Market
of
retirement of bonds, but for adding to the property pledged under specific mortgages.
Eastern Roads Show Marked Gains
The excellent gains in traffic scored by the Pennsylvania- and the New York Central over the corresponding week of 1933 testify to the betterment in general industry. Traffic over the two trunk lines is as good a gauge of the level of industry as any there is, and both roads scored wide Improvement in the week ended January 6. Central's traffic was up 21.7% over the corresponding week of 1933, and Pennsylvania's expanded 18.8%. Both gains were the best scored over the corresponding week of the previous year in a long time.
Traffic reports from the two eastern trunk lines, and one or two others, made the prospect bright for a good report on loadings of the county as a whole tomorrow.
Upswing Impresses Chartists
The abrupt rally in stocks in the late dealings yesterday, accompanied by a sharp upturn tn volume, impressed chart students. The very narrow fluctuations in stock prices, with trading volume small, since December 27 had led
a more en-______oo _____________ community has been treated to in some time, coupled with a Presidential pronouncement on utility and railroad bond sinking funds, which was re- ________	____________r _____ _
garded as constructive, helped to further the technical students to anticipate a near-term rise in stock prices yesterday. Near the close the move of some importance. A break-out, in volwhole market surged forward in brilliant style, ume, after such narrow markets as have been large blocks of stocks appearing on the tape, witnessed recently, is regarded as indicative of Gains ran from 1 to 4 % points m the leaders, the immediate market trend, from the chart Transactions jumped to 1.420,000 shares, almost students' viewpoint.
double the average of the two previous sessions Another factor which has made chartists uuiiues ana rauroaa stocks were in the van	somewhat	optimistic	is that the market, on each
of the adv^ncn. Rails not only had the henefit	recent	recession, has	halted with the averages at
of the President's approval of sinking funds on higher levels than those touched on preceding rail bonds, but also were helped by the generally	dips.	On	December	20, the industrial average
good loadings reports turned in by a number of	closed	at	95.28 and	toe following day the rail
roads, particularly the eastern carriers. The President’s reference to the utility rate structure was of major aid to the utility group. Among the rails. New York Central, Atchison, Delaware, Lackawanna &. Western and Delaware die Hudson were the good performers. North: American. Consolidated Gas, American Telephone and Western Union were good performers in the utility group.
Industrials weren’t neglected. Alcohol shares rose again, led by U. S Industrial Alcohol. While Chrysler swung in a narrow range, it rallied later and closed up 2’>. General Motors was in demand at higher prices. General Electric and Westinghouse were helped by the rise in orders booked by the former in the December quarter over the final quarter of 1932. Dividend news was good and V. S. Steel’s report on December shipments, showing a 38% upturn over November, aided the steel shares.
A batch of news developments couraging tenor than the financial
average finished at 39.13, marking the bottom of the pre-Christmas recession. After a minor rally, the list cased again, the decline ending on December 26, when the industrial average closed at 96.30 and the rail average at 39.26. Early this month a rally was succeeded by a minor decline, the rails closing on January 5 at 39.85 and the industrials at 96.73. In all three cases the low’s in both averages on recessions were above the bottoms on the previous dips.
Farm Grain Stocks Lower
The Department of Agriculture’s estimate of stocks of grain m the hands of farmers at the first of the year was m lino with expectations. The figures, considered in the light of current prices for grain, indicate that farmers have, in grain on the farms, a potential income considerably larger than they did a year ago in spite of the sharp contraction in the amount of grain held.
While wheat stocks were down to 194,136,-The domestic corporation bond market was 000 bushels January 1, off 28% from the be-notably active and prices worked higher in all ginning of 1933, the price of grain currently is Industrial and rail issues did better about 75% above the level prevailing a year ago. Even allowing for the fact that the percentage of poor wheat in farm stocks is larger this year than last, as the trade believes, the potential income from this grain to farmers still ■	‘	_ The same is true in
the cose of corn where stocks are off less than 25%. while the price is up more than 90% from a year ago. If prices hold around current levels, the figures augur well for farm equipment and mail order house business in coming months.
groups, than others, but utility bonds ranged upward, too. Government bonds, on the other hand, sagged off again in active trading. Foreign issues forged ahead.
Another good day wheat up for gains of at the close. Coarse	_
the advance in rye and barley exceeding a bushel. “ push up to new high ground for the advance, rising 6 to 9 points.
Buoyancy prevailed in the London market.	How They Stand
Industrials and utilities led the way. and min- Number of earnings reports of leading coming shares pushed ahead. Irregularity prevailed panics compared with those for the correspond-on the Faris Bourse.	* '	“	1	'
K. F. C. Inpayments Impressive
The most impressive aspect of the Reconstruction Finance Corp.’s report for the year-end was the amount of repayments of loans which have been made, particularly loans to banks and trust companies. While repayments in this instance amounted to 49.7% of total actual advances, not as high a percentage of repayments as some other groups, the volume totaled $710,659,693. The sustained volume of repayments from this source has enabled the Reconstruction Finance Corp, to extend credit elsewhere without additional advances from the government.
The volume of repayments which has taken place on the rise in busmess which has occurred adds force to the arguments advanced in some quarters that a major shrinkage in the government debt can be accomplished with fair rapidity, once business expands t® slightly higher levels. On the basis of the repayment record of banks and trust companies so far, it is apparent that a much higher percentage could be reached on a further improvement in business generally.
As far as the railroads go, It will be some time before their repayments will assume major proportions. Big borrowers from the RFC like the Missouri Pacific an dthe Frisco, aren’t in position yet to make important payments on their obligations to the government agency, and won’t be until a reorganization. There are other carriers, however, which will be able to make payments on their debts if traffic forecasts for the first half of 1934 are borne out.
in the grain pit earned is well above a year ago. 1 to lr,h confs a bushel	’
grains were higher, too.
• •	•	ig 1 cent
Cotton again showed its ability to
mg period* a year previous and of dividend ieclarations compared with the previous declarations. follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Since	Additions
Jan 1	yesterday
25	
34	1
in	14
22	. .
. 16	I
o	
. 1	• .
Prices	
.ock Ex-
St.
Increased earnings ....... Decreased dividends ......
Unchanged dividends ....« Increased dividends Resumed dividends ........
Initial dividends ........
Omitted dividends .......
High and Low
Wednesday, on the New York change, seven stocks < American Smelting pfd.. Associated Dry Goods 2d pfd.. Bigelow Sanlord Evans Products. Libby-Owens-Ford Glass, National Aviation, and Shell Union Oil " * made new highs, and one stock (West Power pfd.) made a new low, for the 1934-1933.
pfd I Fenn year
The President's Sinking Fund Views
No one will quarrel with the President in his view that sinking funds on both utility and railroad bonds should be provided for. The old theory that a railroad line constituted a permanent investment, which could be counted to give a pretty certain yield annually, took a terrible drubbing in the depression years, and has been thoroughly upset Railroads have abandoned lines once regarded aS good, due to competition from trucks, the automobile and the bus. Sinking funds would have taken care of retiring debt on such lines.
Initially, provision for sinking funds on railroad or utility bonds might threaten dividends on junior securities. While the sinking fund isn’t a charge against earnings, its payment hinges on earnings. The President showed his understanding of the problem when he took the stand that regulatory bodies should not pare rates to such an extent as to threaten continuance of sinking fund payments. That view is a most constructive one, and one which should go far toward making companies provide for debt retirement at a definite, annual rate. Clarification of the rate question is a necessary preliminary to sinking fund provisos.
Position of Junior Securities
Over the fong run, sinking funds improve the position of the junior equity bolder. Gradual retirement of debt ahead of common and preferred shareholders mokes maintenance of preferred dividends or payment of common dividends more certain.
Rail bonds, with sinking funds, are few and far between. A few of the best known issues are the Mobile & Ohio 4s, the Erie Pennsylvania Coal Co. collaterals and the Norfolk Western Focohontas Coal Co. collaterals. In the two latter eases, gradual exhaustion of the coal properties was the basis for the sinking fund on the bond*. Some utility operating companies have sinking fUnd obligations, but their number isn't extensive. Many indentures provide for use of improvement funds to better the bondholders' mortgage, but the use of such, funds isn’X for
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.