Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 10, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg.15	_
the Market
Abreast of
1933 1<%
.0533% 4.49%
5 85
9 55%
0.75
12.50
4 50
41
.	7.58
1.77
36%
1.44
43.90
1.00%
92.0
5.00
corresponding month, of 1933, due entirely to the fact that both roads took into their income accounts in June of this year the funds they received in dividends on their holdings of Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad stock. Each of the Northerns owns 830,179 shares of Burlington stock, so the income of each road last month was increased by $1,660,358. Last year, the Burlington padd no dividend in June, so the Northerns had no such special income to help them.
Without the special revenue, both the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific would have been In the red tn June, in contrast to net income of $489,338 for the Great Northern and $13,237 for the Northern Pacific in June of 1933.
Inflationary sentiment,	_____ _	__
nouncement from Washington of the nahonaK. zation of silver, lifted prices for stocks sharply yesterday, the metal and commodity stocks leading the advance. The dollar broke abroad and commodity prices moved upward once again. Heaviness in bonds rounded out a picture of an Inflationary move.
The rush of buying which came into stocks in the late dealings put the tape well behind actual floor transactions. Shorts, anxious to cover their commitments, helped to put the market up on themselves. Gains in stocks amounted in some cases to almost 5 points, and advances of 2 points were sprinkled liberally through the In addition to the metal shares, leaders in rise were the steels, the motor issues, the and the chemicals. The railroad shares in line, too, Atchison closing up 2’4 points.
stimulated
by an-
list, the oils fell _	—w	Fand
utilities were better, with American Telephone the leader of the group, up 1%. Trading in the first four hours totaled only 740,000 shares, but the late rally lifted volume and	in
the final hour ran to 680,000, lifting the day's total to 1,425,000 shares, the largest day of the month so far.
Trading was cautious and prices dragged lower early in, the session, while the financial community waited for the President's speech at Green Bay, Wis. Shortly after the President began his address, the announcement of the silver move was made from Washington ■ The hesitancy shown earlier was dispelled quickly, and stocks started to push upward rapidly, commodities rallying, too There was nothing in the President’s speech to satisfy the financial community’s craving for some assurance to business which would quiet present fears.
While the announcement of the silver proposal was enough to bring a rush to buy equities, it hardly is immediately inflationary. The government is going to continue issuing silver certificates for the metal purchased, but only on the basis of the cost price.
The downtrend in bonds was continued, with rail obligations again the weak feature. All groups suffered during the morning, but rallied some in the afternoon. In the foreign list, German and Argentine issues were higher.
Grains travelled over a wide range, but met strong support on dips. Corn was the feature of the market, closing 3% to 3^ cents a bushel higher on the day, with reports of further damage to the crop helping the market. Wheat, after an early dip, rallied strongly and closed near the day’s highs, at new tops for the season. Gains, based on new contract prices, am mm to from 1% to 1% cents a bushel. Rubber futures soared and silver was strong abroad and marked up sharply in New York before trading in futures was halted by the announcement from Washington. Cotton reached new high ground, closing up almost $1 a bale, at the highest pnee since June, 1930. Foerign exchanges rallied strongly against the dollar.
In London, commodity company shares were the strong spots in a generally firm market. The list moved up in Faris in quiet dealings.
Demand Light for Registration Statement
So far, the demand for copies of the registration statement issued in connection with the sale of $15,000,000 American Water Works convertible 5% bonds earlier this year has been extremely light. Reports from Washington are that only one request for a photostatic copy of the bulky document has been received, indicating the individual investor is quite satisfied with the details included in the prospectus of the issue, and doesn’t want to study the 180-odd pages in the registration statement. In addition, copies of the statement cost in the neighborhood of $200 apiece, which narrows the field of prospective purchasers.
Motor Workers Shift Allegiance
The recent appearance of revolt among automobile workers against the leadership of the American Federation of Labor may prove of considerable significance in regard to the motor industry's status with labor in 1935. While the new union, known as the Associated Automobile Workers of America, is still in the formative stage and its final scope and policies hence are undefined, some quarters are inclined to view the development in an optimistic light and are hopeful that the organization, if it supplants the A. F. of L. as the dominant outside labor organization in the industry, will display a more sympathetic attitude toward management problems.
For the time being, of course, the new union is capitalizing on discontent among the rank and file workers against A. F. of L. policies, a discontent based partly on the feeling that the A. F. of L. leaders failed to push their demands aggressively in the negotiations prior to the settlement of the threatened automobile strike last March.
The leading public figure in the new labor group so far is Arthur E. Greer, head of the Hudson union which is the largest unit yet to break with the A. F. of L. and Join the new movement.. Greer was chairman of the election committee of the Hudson Industrial Association when that body was formed under the auspices of the company last September. A few months later he joined the A. F. of L. and became head of the Hudson local. He is a strong supporter of Richard Byrd, labor's representative on the National Automobile Labor Boara, who, it is understood, has met A. F. of L. opposition.
Home Owners’ Loan Issue
Announcement of the bids received on the Home Owners* Loan Corp, bonds yesterday testified to the growing wariness of investors toward long term obligations of the United States Government. Three series were offered, each of $50,000,000, and for the first time, bidders had the privilege of offering less than par for Government obligations, with the exception of discount bills. The short term issue, maturing in 1936, was oversubscribed by a sizable amount. On the two longer term issues, however, satisfactory bids fell short of the amount offered. Incidentally, the Treasury failed to make public the number of bids of less than par received. Wariness of dealers was increased by the recent market performance of the Federal Farm Loan issues, which fell under the prices offered at the competitive sale a few weeks ago, making them unsalable for “the present.
Another indication of uncertainty over the outlook for Government obligations was seen in bids for the most recent offering of 182-day Treasury bills. On an offering of $75,000,000 in bills, subscriptions totaled only and the average rate was 0.12%. vious offering of short term bills, 0.09%.
$108,663,000. On the pre-the rate was
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of panies, compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow: Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
Increased earning’s......
Decreased earnings.......
Unchanged dividends......
Increased dividends......
Reduced dividends........
Accumulated dividends ... Resumed dividends........
Omitted dividends........
Initial dividends .......
leading com*
Since	Additions
July 1	yesterday
367	11
179	
229	*8
26	
5	
12	i
16	1
3	1
2	• •
Prices	
Silver at New High in London
Following Wednesday’s sharp advance in the price of silver in the New York market, the metal shot upward in London yesterday to a new high. The price of gold, too, climbed again to 138s id. Tuesday was the only day in the last 12 during which the price of the metal in London fell under 138s.
The rise in both gold and silver prices is impressing the London stock market. Yesterday, the list there was generally strong, but the commodity stocks were the best performers. Financial interests there, as well as in this country, recognize the prospect of rising prices and are moving to get into stocks which should benefit the most from such a trend.
High and Low
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, seven stocks made new highs and nine stocks made new lows, for the year 1934.
New Highs
IFUenew 8 or., h’orand* Mia.
New Lows
I Gen Am Tran
Kx>ub* & Na»h.
• MnralmllFleld
California Pkz ComlnTr <*vpf Wcmod Oil pf
Chile Copper.. Federal Mln's GetkAl nrw pf
i Merch^Mln Tr
Beadln* .... I St	Fr..
Looking for a Selective Market
In brokerage houses where optimism still prevails, stress is being laid on the selectivity of the market and the prospect that even if a good advance occurs, certain stocks are likely to push ahead more rapidly than others. With inflation sentiment growing, the metal shares, particularly the gold and silver mining company issues, are cited as the most likely leaders. The canning company stocks find general favor, due to the prospect for increased consumption of canned goods as result of the drought. Stocks of companies in consumer goods lines, with sizable inventories, have met support on reactions.
The revival of inflation sentiTpent recently has been due, in part, to the tenor of President Roosevelt’s speeches. Business men, looking for some reassuring word, haven’t received anything of that kind, and their unwillingness to venture far in the face of current uncertainties has been intensified, rather than decreased. If private industry does not go forward, then government spending seems bound to be increased, to care for the unemployed and the needy in the drought area. Government spending, without major increase in the business level, means that the budget will be heavily unbalanced again, because the expected yield from taxes will not be realized. Wall Street recognizes the potentialities in such a chain, and has become inflationary minded accordingly.
The Northerns* June Report
Both the Great Northern and the Pacific reports for June showed very creases in net income for the naonth
Northern sharp in-GVBT the
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.