STREET STUDIES FALL OUTLOOK: GOVERNMENT SPENDING TO BE MAJOR FACTOR ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 30, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
STREET STUDIES
FALL OUTLOOK
Government 'Spending To Be
Major Factor in Any Up-
turn—Credit Base Rises
The Week Reviewed
Boated recognition of the serious effects of the drought in the middle West and discouragement at the performance of the market itself conspired to bring heavy selling into stocks in the week just closed, carrying the market down to the lowest level since October. 1933. News of the Nazi putsch in Austria, and its repercussions in other European countries, possibly helped to disturb American security holders, but it was not the prime factor in bringing about the setback. Europe continued in its role as a mn^prat-p buyer of stocks on balance.
Ix>oking to the near-term future, tbe financial community continued to pin its hopes for a rising market on an upturn in business in the fail Admittedly, the effects of the drought in the middle West and the setback in the stock market will act as something of a check on business sentiment, and the burden of bringing about the business betterment will fall more heavily on the government spending program. As Eugene G. Grace, president of Bethlehem Steel Corp., pointed out, business men still lack confidence and private capital is timid, so that government spending holds the major position in figuring on a fall improvement.
Some of the selling which appeared in important stocks last week was traceable to disappointment over statements for the second quarter. Reports from Consolidated Gas, General Motors and General Electric were among those which revealed how seriously profits for shareholders are being curtailed by higher operating costs and the increased tax burden. Railroad reports for June, too, were distinctly discouraging, with net operating income in the aggregate well under the total for June of 1933.
Industry still is in the period of seasonal dullness. While other indices have been contracting, the one bright spot has been the utility output figures, which have moved forward steadily. Retail trade has held up fairly well, aided by hot weather. Third quarter earnings reports, however, arc bound to be poor, compared with second quarter showings, as costs are up and volume has dwindled.
On the political side, an important consideration these days, the Congressional campaign soon will be in full swing. The President, too. i^ due back from his vacation jaunt early in August, and his scheduled speeches on the trip across the country will be awaited with the keenest interest.
Excess Reserves at New High
Mounting member bank reserves, with a consequent rise in excess balances, brought both items to new high records on July 25. The reserve balances of the member banks in the Reserve system on that date totaled $4,020,030,000. an increase of $33,000,000 compared with the previous week.
Since the beginning of this year excess reserves of the member banks have more than doubled. The average m January was $863.700,000 for all members in tho system. Reserves were S2,740.000,000 m January and now are in excess of $4,000,000,000. Currently, excess reserves of the Nev; York City reporting member banks is about 3540.000.000, against $507,000,000 on July 18.
Another important change in the credit situation was the utilization by the Treasury of its “free” gold to an amount of approximately $12,000,000. The actual deposit of gold eei -tlficates with the Reserve banks in the week ended July 25 was $26,000,000. while the increase in the monetary gold stock was only 314,000,000. Money in circulation, reflecting principally seasonal dullness, showed anouwr drop of S37.000.000 during the week.
Wheat Firms From Lows
Chicago wheat firmed after the market had undergone breaks that had carried prices between 3 and 4 cents a bushel below the previous week’s closing level Wheat, in common with other commodities, became unsettled by the action of securities.
Aiding the Chicago market was comparative strength in world markets for the major cereal, reflecting diminished prospects for the crop in Canada, where there is urgent need for moisture and the grain is deteriorating. Private estimates received from Winnipeg suggested a crop of 270,000,000 to 300,000.000 bushels. This would compare with last year’s short crop of 251.000,000 bushels. Argentina and Australia also reported lack of moisture for wheat.
In various areas of the corn belt there were scattered rains, followed by lower temperatures, and while there was some profit taking in the corn market, slight dips encountered strong buying from new sources.
Cotton Breaks and Rallies
Erratic price changes over a range of S2 a bale occurred in cotton futures, which staged a partial rally toward the close of the week after successive breaks had carried the market to 12.60 for October, 75 points below the season’s top price, made in the middle of the previous week. Buying by the European trade and the Far East was encountered whenever the market broke.
Cotton moved in sympathy with stocks and the grains, but it responded also to crop-weather developments. A gulf storm hit the coast near Corpus Christi. It dissipated over northern Mexico, but It resulted in high winds and heavy rains over a considerable area of Texas. In South Texas, where cotton was open in the fields, a lot of damage was done, and in Central Texas cotton plants received much needed moisture, but Northwest Texas, where the drought was most acute, received no rain, nor was there any drought relief in Oklahoma.
Private forecasts were made putting the 1934 crop below 9,500,000 bales, which would be the smallest production this century with the exception of the crop of 1921, which was reduced to 7,978,000 bales by heavy weevil damage.
Steel Rate Declines
Steel activity slipped a little in the past week. Operations for the week beginning July 23 averaged 27.7% of capacity, according to the American Iron & Steel Institute. This represented a drop of 1.1 points from the preceding week.
Steel mills are completing shipments of steel for railroad consumption, against freight car and steel rail orders placed earlier in the year. By the end of this month, this work will have been completed and there are no new orders in sight at the moment. Much will depend upon automotive and construction orders—the latter resulting from government spending—in any hopes for revived buying in August. At the
moment, new business is lacking and the outlook is confused. In some cases, stocks in the hands of consumers are still a little high for the amount of going business.
Earnings statements of the leading companies for the first half, released during the week, made good reading. The second quarter results were particularly encouraging. In fact, directors of Bethlehem Steel Corp, decided to declare a distribution of $1.75 on the 7% preferred, the first payment since July, 1932. However, Eugene G Grace, president, cautioned against over-optimism regarding future dividends on the preferred. He said the payment was made out of first half earnings and that this carried no inference of further payments at the next quarterly meeting of directors. Much would depend upon business and earnings, he remarked.
Foreign Exclxange Eyes on Austria
Like other markets, tbe attention of the foreign exchanges last week was directed upon the swiftly changing events in Austria.
In spite of the potentialities of the situation. the exchange market was remarkably quiet. Compared with moves seen in the past, the changes in the rates were small. Sterling showed a tendency to sag on Thursday when the international tension was the greatest, but, coincident with tbe appointment of Vice Chancellor von Papcn as German Minister to Austria, tho decline was halted.	,
All through the week the German mark mystified the market. As the outlook became darker day by day, the mark climbed steadily until late Friday afternoon, when a fresh outbreak in Vienna was followed by offerings which hammered the rate down.
Considering the fact that Italy is in a difficult and delicate position as the leader in the movement to guarantee the independence of Austria and thus the direct obstacle to German ambitions with respect to Austria, Italian circles considered that the lira gave a good account of itself. It was under pressure on Thursday but showed good recuperative powers on Friday, advancing even against French francs.
The latter unftrwas affected not .only by the Austrian revolt but by the domestic political
developments. A new political truce has been arrived at, this time in solution of the Tardieu Chautemps quarrel. The beneficial effects, however, were soon offset by Vienna, and francs sagged again to the level at which gold can be imported from Faris to New York.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.