STRIKE FACTOR IN MARKET DIP: STOCKS RESISTED BAD NEWS TILL NEAR END ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 23, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
STRIKE FACTOR
IN MARKET DIP
Stocks Resisted "Bad News Till Near End of Week—German.
Situation Disturbing
The Week Reviewed
Its position unsettled by setbacks of varying' size in important issues, the stock market turned downward at the end of the week just closed and, for the first time since May trading volume showed a tendency to pick up as the list gave way. The financial community had plenty of unfavorable news to face during the week, incmding labor troubles in San Francisco and elsewhere, but until the close of the week selling failed to bring much change In the general level -of the market.
Possibly one reason for tbe altered attitude toward stocks lay in the intimations from Washington that the Government in September, planned an ambitious conversion operation, including a shift of some of its short term debt into a longer term issue. Tbe reports naturally put a damper on inflation sentiment, and it was significant that the silver shares were among the heaviest spots on the list.
Pressure on railroad stocks continued, and it reflected both the unfavorable June reports, which are coming to hand and the prospect that July and August will be bad months for the cart tars, too. If traffic picks up in the fall, the railiosd picture will be more hopeful, but at the turn of the year the carriers face another increase in their wage bills, at a season when traffic is low and they can ill afford the added expense.
While strength in grains has been one cheering item in the general picture, the cause of that strength—extremely short crops—means lower farm purchasing power, and that is not encouraging on the outlook for an upturn in business in the fall. The Government is offsetting the farmers’ loss in income, in part, by bonus payments from processing taxes and by distribution of special relief funds, but even so, farmers aren’t going to be in much of a buying mood after the crop season they have had this year.
Looking forward, the financial community Is depending heavily on an increase in the rate of Government spending to lift the level of general business. So far in July, Government spending has shown no important change from the level of late May and June. Private enterprise and private capital still arc timid, due in large part to high taxes and the prospect of an Increased burden, and the uncertainties over Government policies. Gradual inflation is continuing, but it has not “taken” yet. and when it will is still as much a matter of doubt as ever.
A disturbing element in the general outlook is the situation in Germany. If the conservative element wins out. the world outlook will be distinctly more cheerful. As long as uncertain conditions prevail there, and the country’s foreign trade position deteriorates, a shadow will be cast over the world outlook.
One prime factor which has made even the Investing public cautious is the revelation in some of the corporate reports for the second Quarter that net income of a number of companies is not rising, although business volume as. Profit margins, in a number of cases, are not faring well.
New Complexities in Steel Outlook
Steel operations continued to fluctuate around their low levels of the year. For the week beginning July 16. the rate advanced 1.3 points to 28.8%. or 5.8 points better than the extreme low reached during the independence Day holiday m the first week of this month.
There is virtually no new. business of consequence from those consumers which were the mainstay of the market during the second quarter. Motor manufacturers are pretty well taken care of for the time being and a resumption in buying in the next few weeks is : dependent upon retail sales of cars.	1
The extended drought is beginning to worry some business men. Reports of damage to the vegetable crops may foreshadow a reduction in estimated tin plate requirements by the can makers. Farm tool sales may also suffer, de .^pite government aid in the stricken areas. JWhile some curtailment in crop surpluses was at first hailed as a constructive development, fears have now begun to displace early enthusiasm because of the extent of the damage. It is feared that a rise in living costs, coming at a time when purchasing power of the people is at a low level, may introduce new complexities and trouble into an already perplexing economic Situation.
Steel men are reserving judgement about the prospects for a fall upturn, in view of recent developments.
Cotton Breaks After Touching Nnv High*
^l"^ cotton market early in the week showed strength and activity, with all months selling above the 13-cent level for new highs on the present movement, for the season and the best since the summer of 1930. Buying, which was extremely heavy at times, came through commission houses and from trade interests, coupled with fresh outside or speculative demand. Contributing factors were failure of drought area In the southwest to get any rainfall, spreading of high temperatures in the belt and unfavorable private crop reports.
Later, in the week, prices sold off rather sharply on week-end liquidation and selling on uncertainty over weather developments. July. October and December went under 13 cents Again. Around 13 cents for October numeroua stop orders were uncovered.
Wheat at New Highs, Dips
Wheat showed strength early in the week with new highs for the current movement being scored. September crossing $1.01 a bushel. Buying was general, particularly from eastern houses. Firmness abroad, stronger western markets and strength shown by corn proved beneficial factors as prices moved into higher ground. High prices attracted considerable profit taking as w*eek wore on and some professional pressure, with the result that setbacks took place.
Stem rust was reported in Canada and black rust in parts of North Dakota, although the latter reports had little effect marketwise. There was talk of material crop damage in Canada owing to the high temperatures, ranging up to 103 degrees in some parts.
Corn showed strength, with prices arivanc. ing on bullish private crop estimates and excessively high temperatures. There was persistent buying from the East and for Continental account. The pit sold and there was some realizing. December sold at a new seasonal high.	'
Foreign Exchange
Rapidly changing developments both here abroad. last jdeek. brought arratic
ments to stir the foreign exchange market out of the extreme dullness which has characterized it of late. Volume of business, however, continued at low ebb. despite the shifting of rates.
Strike developments on tbe West Coast occupied the market’s attention for the most part and, up until the time when the strike actually was broken, consituted a bear factor for the dollar. Although there was little real selling of the dollar, it was recognized that the situation had serious potentialities and foreign exchanges tended higher as a result of the nervousness. When the strike was broken, the dollar tended higher.
Special situations also injected themselves into the picture in tbe latter half of tbe week. A little demand for marks on Thursday, understood to have come from Russian sources, brought a run-up of about 1 cent in tbe rate for free marks, but the rate sagged again on Friday.
On Friday, French francs turned soft against both the pound and the dollar as a result of the unfavorable political developments in France. Although there was no generally heavy selling of franc exchange, the rate dropped sufficiently to make it possible to ship gold from Faris to New Xoxk,	.	■
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.