the Market
Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 14, 1934; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15	r
Abreast of
Market Diary
Monday
	1934	1933
Call money renewal	in.	I*!
Time money. OT days .	.	H'wU.	
Acceptance*, OT days ..	<		
Commercial paper 		4. M 1 %	14 5’ l'« rr
Franca, cablet		.0M9 4	.05284
Sterling cables	6 104	4 44
New York bank rate ....		24
Recerve System ratio ....	70 0%	as.4%
Coffee. Rio. September....	a is	•	5 57
^Copper, delivered		9	9
Com, September		754»	494
Cotton, October		13 48	9 10
Hides, September		6 55	12 30
Lead, New York		3 75	4 50
Oats, September. ..	•	494	364,
Rubber, etand’d No 1 Sept.	15.74	7 13
Silk, raw. October..	■	1.14^	1.73
Biiver, New York ....	494	354
Sugar, raw September .	1 78	1 29
Tin, September	52 05	4 I 6'>
Wheat. September.	.	1 03*»	924
Wool topi, September .	SI 0	95 0
Zinc, East St. Louis	.	4 30	500
into line
behind the
The general list swung metal shares in the first session of the new week ' and stocks pushed forward for gains of from 1 fractions to 6 points in trading which moved up to 810,000 shares. The metal group continued to show the way. U. S. Smelting, Ccrro de Pasco, American Smelting and Phelps Dodge touching new highs on the current recovery. Kails hardened, too, with Union Pacific rallying 5 points, partly at the expense of the shorts. Utilities were fractionally higher.
Irregularity prevailed at the opening, but it was net long before stocks began to creep for* ward. In the motor group, Chrysler and General Motors pushed ahead for advances of IS and % points, respectively. Sears Hoebuck and Montgomery Ward showed relief from recent pressure, and Johns Manville and Case were spots of special strength, both gaining more than 2. A now rise in rubber futures lifted Goodyear and U. S. Rubber, while Allied Chemical and du Pont were the features among chemicals. Oils were higher snd sugars rose, with Manati preferred, in the odd lot group, coming to the fore. American Telephone was the leader in the utility field, advancing 2J;.
The performance of individual groups Indicated that commodity stocks, and others which would benefit from inflation, were the favorites. A rise in the nricc of gold abroad, and a new blast from Senator Elmer D. Thomas, urging further currency debasement, kept inflation interest high. A sharp decline in the steel rate, to 22.3% of capacity, didn't unsettle the steel I shares. Possibly some of the strength in the list was due to the hope that the Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, received during the day by the Stock Exchange, and made public after the close, would be less restraining than some had believed. Study of tho initial statement from the Commission indicated it had followed the line laid out in the speech of Joseph P. Kennedy, its chairmun, pretty closely.
A rally in bond prices, particularly in speculative issues, reduced, some of the declines scored early in the session. The list continued to suffer from pressure of offerings, however. Govem-ment obligations rallied, helped by a rise in the dollar in the foreign exchange market. German and Italian government issues were lower Rank stocks sagged off.
While grain prices closed lower, prices were well above the day’s lows, set near the opening Wheat, at the finish, was down Vs to U cents a bushel, and corn showed a loss of U to -St cents Rye was strong, closing up more than 1 cent a bushel, and wheat gained ground in Winnipeg, Ignoring lower markets in Europe. Cotton futures advanced 2 to 5 points, and rubber closed a shade higher.
Trading was narrow and prices heavy in Paris. Mining and rubber shares pushed ahead in London, with the rest of the list irregular.

possible that carloadings will move above the corresponding period of 1933 sometime next month, Possibly, this will bring some return of interest to tho carrier group. The 2’,£% wage increase now in effect, however, will offset a sizable part of the benefits of the anticipated pick-up in traffic.
Oil Stocks Move Upward
Strength in the oil group was one of the features of yesterday’c upward move in stock prices. A number of brokerage houses have been suggesting#the oils aa among the best "commodity” and “inventory” stocks, pointing out also that consumption of petroleum products held extremely well during the depression years and has moved up strongly this year. OH company reports, for the first half year, showed the majority well in the black, and the current quarter is expected to reveal sizable additions to earnings. The price situation this quarter has been better than in the second three months of the year. Some likely candidates for dividend increases before the year is out arc included in the oil group.
The SEC Regulations
Initial regulations made public by the Securities and Exchange Commission assured the ft-nancial community that the Commission would go slow in formulation of final rules for exchanges, and would do so only after extensive further investigation of all angles of exchange and brokerage house practice. In its first batch of regulations, the major Item was tho one providing for disclosure by company officials and directors of stock holdings, and changes in thcnif monthly, beginning with November. Certainly. the Initial announcement did not reveal drastic action on the Commission’s part, or the intention of taking such action in the near future.
Tn brokerage quarters, there has been considerable discussion of the possibility that having all exchanges under similar regulations In regard to listing may cause troffers of stocks, now listed on minor exchanges, to major markets. Before the creation of the SEC, sonic companies preferred to list their shares on exchanges where regulations, paitlcularly m regard to reports, were less stringent With similar regulations covering all exchanges, a gradual shift to major exchanges is considered a possibility.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies. compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations. follow: Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis arc included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
Since July 1 398 190 250 27
5 13 16 3 2
Addition’'
Yesterday 13
4
7
Increased earnings.........
Decreased earnings.........
Unchanged dividends........
Increased dividends........
Reduced dividends .........
Accumulated dividends .... Resumed dividends..........
Omitted dividends..........
Initial dividends..........
High and Low Prices
Monday, on the Nev. York Stock Exchange, four stocks made new highs and six slocks made new lows, for the year 1934
New High* Archr Daniel* i I* FtU ft C pr | C'lillfurntu I’kc j UulKrwn pl. |
New Lows
Col & Non 1pf | Norwalk T pf ' Ro MftO cl h>»»b c st to l I inu» unit pt . Lou vl»ye xrt
Gold at High Since February in London I The latest American monetary move, coupled I witli new agitation in France for devaluation i of the franc, is helping to stimulate hoarding abroad again and to lift the price of gold in I London Yesterday, gold rose to 13Ss fid, the highest price since February 6, topping the June 26 level, the previous high, by ’jd
On January 31, the London price of gold stood at 133s Id. Within five days, following i the President's announcement of formal deval-1 uation of the dollar and a raise in the gold price | to $35. the London price had jumped to 140s. | Since that time, the lov. point reached was on April 4. at 134s 3d Recently, the price abroad I has been working steadily higher. The al-1 tempted revolution in Austria, and the critical I conditions in Germany, helped to lift the gold I level abroad. Now, new influences are nt work *to send it higher.
I
i Leeway for Raising Chesapeake Dividend ; Directors of the Chesapeake Corp are *ched-uled to meet thi3 week for action on the comI mon dividend, and the first half year's income report shows plenty of leeway for an Increase in tho payments Net income of the corporation, exclusive of loss on sale of securities, was equal to $3,740,361. Losses on securities sold were charged to surplus account, but oven if they had been charged to income for the period, net would have been equal to slightly better than $2 a share on the capital stock outstanding, and net income for 1934 should be equal to more than $4 a share Current dividends are at the rate of $2.50 annually. '
While the indicated leeway for an increase in the dividend rate is ample, consideration must be given to the fact that the Chesapeake Corp : still has outstanding in the neighborhood of $17,000,000 in bank loans. With current income topping dividend payments by roughly $700,000 a quarter, the corporation can continue to pare 1 down its bank indebtedness out of earnings at a fairly swift rate. Plans for refinancing the bank loans through the sale of bonds were initiated about two months ago, and work on the proposed issue siiil M going fuiwaiu Huwever. until the bond market improves, there Isn't much likelihood of an attempt being made to refund the bank Joans. Possibly, directors will wait until the bank loans arc refunded, or further reduced by cash payments, before lifting the dividend rate.
Fighting the Pension Law
Attorneys for the railroads of the country yesterday fired the opening shot against the Railway Pension Act, filing a suit to test its constitutionality in the District of Columbia Supreme Court. Litigation involving such important legislation is liable to extend over a considerable period of time, and the carriers will have to face the possibility of making the contributions to the pension fund specified under the law. Like the proposal for increases In rates on certain commodities and classes of goods, it will take considerable lime for the railroads to get the relief they need, if they obtain It at all.
The current blackness In the railroad picture may be dissipated somewhat before long by a seasonal increase in traffic. It still is quite
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.