Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 12, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
absolutely nothing, because adjustments cannot be made on a monthly basis. In my opinion, total monthly earnings would vary from $6,000,000 to $7,000,000 from the year's final results, after adjustments."
Market
Call money, renewal..........
Time money, 90 days.........
Acceptances, 90 days.........
Commercial paper.............
Francs, cables ..........._
Sterling cables ..............
New York bank rate...... Reserve System ratio......
Coffee, Rio, March. ......_ Copper, delivered ........
Corn. May ...............
Cotton, March............
Hides, March .............
Lead, New York ............
Oats. May ....................
Rubber. No. 1 stand*d W. Silk, raw, March...........
Silver, New York...........
Sugar, raw, March..........
Tin. March ................
Wheat. May ................
Wool tops. March ..........
Zinc, East St. Louis.......
Diary
.	Saturday	
2934	1933
1«&	1%
	
	
	
.0648	.0390Vs
5 03	3.43
	
83.9*?>	66.8*9
8.04	5.83
8	5
51*4	26
12.32	6.02
10.25	4 80
24.00	3 00
36**	17*6
10.72	2.96
Closed	1.17
44 V6	254.
1.66	0.79
50 85	22.90
90^	4744.
107.3	47.5
4.40	2 65
Publication' of the terms of the Fletcher bill for regulation of the securities markets brought new selling into the stock market in the closing session of the week. Aviation stocks were the weakest group, affected also by cancellation of air mail contracts, and leaders broke heavily at the start of trading. -The whole market was weak for the first half hour, losses ranging from fractions to more than 3 points, but in the latter part of the session the leaders regained some of the ground lost in the early dealings, and some stocks pushed above the previous close. Silver shares rose, led by U. S. Smelting, up 5^ on the day and at a new high.
Trading was heavy at the start, and specialists had some difficulty In opening the aviation leaders. North American Aviation started on a block of 20,000 shares at 5%, off 3%. United Aircraft didn’t start until after 11 o’clock, and It got under way on a block of 3,400 shares at 25U, off 3%. Later, both stocks rallied from their opening proces, but slumped again near the close. United Airchaft, at 22^£, was off 6%.
Losses in the main body of stocks weren’t as sharp as in the aviation group. Rails were down from 1 to 3 points at the lows; steel shares were heavy, off about as much, and there were sharp declines all through the list. The market steadied after the early heavy volume, when the tape lagged as much as 6 minutes behind, and prices started to move u.yvyard. The upturn gained momentum in the late dealings. ’ The market also was affected by the fact that a two-day holiday was ahead, and traders were inclined to withdraw temporarily.
There was no alteration in the business picture. Major indices are pointing upward in a gradual improvement. In steel, the improvement is particularly noteworthy.
Speculative bonds suffered in the early declines in the domestic corporation bond* list. High-grade issues of all groups held better. Foreign bonds were mixed, French issues firm
ing and German bonds easing. United States Government obligations were steady.
Irregularity prevailed in the commodity markets. Cotton was a tower of strength, rising 11 to 15 points. For the first time in three and one-half years, 13-cent cotton appeared on the board. Wheat dipped, losing around 1 cent a bushel in the forepart of the session. Silver futures closed higher.
January Rail Reports Awaited
In view of’the improvement in traffic in January over a year ago, the financial community is looking for some excellent railroad reports for last month. Within two weeks most of them will be in hand, and in some instances net operating income figures may not come up to the Street’s high expectations. Almost every’ road will show marked improvement in gross revenues, although this won’t be as great as the traffic increase, because the railroads this year have lost the surcharges, which were still in effect in January, 1933.
Rising costs are likely to make the operating income betterment considerably less than the improvement in gross revenues. Tbe railroads are paying a lot more for fuel this year than they did a year ago, due to the fact that the code has raised coal costs. For some roads fuel costs are up from 20% to 40%. Another factor which will show up in the January reports is the increased outlay made by many carriers for equipment maintenance and repairs. Several *of the big roads have been carrying on extensive equipment repair programs in anticipation of a substantial bulge in traffic over coming months. December statements reflected the cost of these programs in part, and January and February reports will include the balance.
The most impressive thing about the betterment in railroad traffic is the way volume of miscellaneous freight and less than carload lot traffic has moved ahead. Gains in these departments, which arc the best gauge of industrial distribution, have been wider than in the loadings as a whole.
Monthly Reports Sometimes Misleading
Wider corporate publicity is all to the good, and although the Stock Exchange has done a great deal to improve conditions in this regard there is still room for betterment. Few will quarrel with the purpose behind the provisions in the Fletcher Bill for wider corporate publicity, but monthly statements from some companies can prove extremely misleading. This is particularly true of leading integrated oil units, doing a world-wide business. Standard of New Jersey. Gulf Oil, Texas Corp., Socony Vacuum and Consolidated fall into this category.
One executive of a large oil company commented: "In our case, quarterly reports would mean little and monthly statements would show
Tuesday's Market Important
Brokers thought Saturday that Tuesday should furnish a real test of the market. Speculators and investors have the two-day holiday in which to weigh the outlook and differentiate between near-term uncertainties and the longer range prospects. Saturday’s short session wasn’t generally regarded as a thorough-going test of the market, in view of the fact that the holiday was in the offing and that the contents of the Fletcher Bill might not have been absorbed fully.
Coal Movement Continues Heavy
Cold weather means heavier coal movement over tbe country’s railroads. The major coal carriers had a big week last week, with anthracite roads doing particularly well because the East, where the cold has been most intense, is the biggest user of anthracite. Individual loadings of railroads, appearing this week, will reflect a wider movement of coal.
World Recovery Continues
A League of Nations statistical bulletin shows that improvement is going forward in the major countries of Europe, some with and some without specific recovery legislation. The League figures that, using 100 for June. 1932, as a basis industrial production in November, 1933, in Germany was up to 117.6; to 109 in Canada; to 115.1 in France; to 110.7 in the United Kingdom, and to 123 6 in the United States.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports ot leading companies compared with those for the correspond* ing period a vear previous and ot divtaeno declarations compared with the previous deciar* ations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to then latest report, and are not duplicated.
	Since Jan. 1	Additions Saturday
Increased earnings . ...	... 226	10
Decreased earnings . ..	...	124	4
Unchanged dividends ..	. ..	327	3
Increased dividends . ..		1
Resumed dividends		...	45	
Initial dividends 				4	
Omitted dividends	. . •	3	
Decreased dividends . . .	7	
High and Low Prices
Saturday on the New York Stock Exchange seven stocks (Belg. Nat. Ry. pf.. Federal Mining pf.. Hat Corp. pf. w. w., Loose-Wiles pf., Mcsta Machine. Pathe Exchange A, U. S. Smelting) made new highs and one stock (Aviation Corp.j made a new low for the year 1934-33.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.