Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 24, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
than one point above tbe net cost to the D. & H., after figuring in the bond profit.
grains were slightly lower. Silver futures were down, and rubber futures dropped.
Prices in London were generally lower.
Selling pressure was
intensified
at
Preferreds Gain as Common Shares Drop
Diverging pnee movements in tbe preferred and common shares of the same companies recently demonstrate that investment buying of preferreds which offer a fair yield, or tbe prospect of a good return, still is sufficient to keep moving forward, while common shares in the same companies sink to lower ground. Temporarily. inflation feans have been pushed into tbe background, and buyers apparently are looking for yields, rather than price appreciation.
A study of price movements last week reveals that in the case of five companies, all in different lines, preferred shares rose while tbe junior equities declined. Johns-Manville preferred reached a new high, and was up 1 point on the week, while thetommon lost 6%. Great Western Sugar preferred rose 1, while tbe common lost 1%; du Font debentures advanced 1%. while the common lost 4 points; Deere preferred picked up half a point as tbe common was losing 2%, and International Silver rose 1 point, while the common lost
Flirting With the June Low
The drastic setback in stock prices yesterday carried the Dow-Jones industrial average down to 91.98, just a shade more than half a point above June 2 low of 91.41, the bottom closing level for the year to date. The rail average, at its close of 38.41. was decisively under the May 12 bottom of 41.11. So far on the reaction the industrial average has closely followed the pattern set by tbe rails, but an important test is ahead. Ability of tbe industrial group’s closing average to resist pressure at this point and its S a decias highly con-of the June 2 the other hand.
average to resist pressure at this point refusal to penetrate the June 2 low by sive margin would be regarded ~	~
structive. Decisive penetration low by the industrials, would, on leave the October lows as tbe next strongly outlined resistance area.
Bulls took what comfort they could out of the resistance shown in the last hour yesterday. Trading volume moved up to 730,000 shares in that hour. The close on the industrial average was a third of a point under the average at 2 o’clock, and the close on the rail average was 27 hundredths of a point beneath the 2 o’clock figures.
Three active leaders yesterday moved against the trend, closing with gains on the day. They were American Telephone, up H. Cerro de Pasco, up U, and United Aircraft, up a*.
For the first hour, prices showed only modest losses from Saturdays’ finish, but as tbe session wore on. volume moved up and the list gave ground easily. Losses between sales amounted to a point, in some cases. Delaware & Hudson, New York Central, Union Pacific. Atchison and Southern Railway were major sufferers in the railroad group. D & H lost 3 points, Union Pacific 3%, while New York Central was down 3% and at a new low for the year.
In the industrial group, mining stocks were the big losers. U. S. Smelting tumbled 3’4 points, and American Smelters 5 and Howe Sound was under insistent pressure, while Anaconda and Kennecott dropped sharply. Oils were soft, but did not lose as much as other groups; Westinghouse was a weak spot, and .In the motor Chrysler each were weak.
low, -under the utility Preferreds but in some
Carbide’s Report a Stand-Out
Even though depreciation expenses were increased 11% in the first half of this year over the comparable period of 1933. Union Carbide’s profits for the first six months of 1934 were 112% ahead of the similar six months of 1933. and were almost as large as in tbe first half of 1931. Carbide's strong showing '	~	‘
half year lends support to the view, in the financial community, that ■ companies, as a group, will shov comeback in earning power than panies, due to their low labor factor, reason why Carbide has gone ahead is that it has done a'very good business in new chemicals and in the electro metal end of the industry, both of which are relatively untapped fields in
in the first widely held * i chemical a stronger other com-One
which substantial demand has developed.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies. compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow: Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
Since July 1 “ 120
69
135
9
3
Increased earnings.......
Decreased earnings......
Unchanged dividends......
Increased dividends ....
Reduced dividends .......
Accumulated dividends ... Resumed dividends........
Omitted dividends .......
Additions veste relay 14 9 I
€
1
1
Western Union broke 2% points, group. General Motors and < dropped around 2 points; and others
Consolidated Gas fell to a new the bear market bottom, and group, as a whole, gave ground, held better than the junior equities, of them markets were thin, and a few had sharp declines.
Nothing in the immediate news accounted for the precipitate break in stock prices. The American Iron & Steel Institute's figures, showing that steel operations at the outset of the week had dropped to 27.7% of capacity, accelerated the decline, but stocks bad turned weak before the figures appeared. Business news, over the weekend, was not particularly discouraging. From the NRA came an expression of willingness to “gamble” on a fall recovery, but stock buyers, apparently aren’t sanguine at the present-time. Foreign news was discouraging, particularly the unsettlement in France.
Prices for domestic corporation bonds were lower, with second grade railroad issues the weakest of any group. Losses elsewhere were not extensive, but the trend was downward. Government issues worked generally lower, while foreign bonds were dull and steady.
A break of more than $1 a bale in cotton helped to upset stocks. Cotton rallied before the close, however, and was only 4 to 6 points lower at the finish. Grains were strong early, but weakness elsewhere pulled them down. Wheat at the close showed fractional losses, and other
Difficult Markets In Some Stocks
Declines between sales in some stocks were drastic yesterday as bids were lowered when the market started to get active on the downside. In the case of Southern Railway, one of the weakest stocks on the board since the reaction got underway, 200 shares sold at 161a. and the next transaction, involving 200 shares, took place at 15 U- Western Union was under severe pressure, and twice during the late morning, spreads of a point took place between sales. A transaction involving 300 shares at 37 occurred, followed by 100 shares at 36. and later a trade involving 200 shares took place at 35 right after 100 shares sold at 36.
Commodity Price** and Business
Rising commodity prices haven’t brought the lift in business which was anticipated in some Administration quarters. The index of the National Fertilizer Association m the week ended July 21 rose to a new high for the year, and stood at the highest point since April 25, 1931. Failure of business activity and wage payments to match the rise in commodity prices is going to bring clamor against the High Cost of Living this winter. Retail prices inevitably will follow the upward curve in staples.
The D. & H.’r Central Investment
If there has been no shift in the Delaware & Hudson's holdings of New York Central common. the corporation was perilously near- to being “m the red” on its investment at last night’s closing price fox Central. The Delaware & Hudson paid an average of $22.35 a share for its 495.000 shares of Central and the cost of that stock was pared down by roughly $2 a share earlxy this year when the D. & H., according to reports, disposed of the New York Centra! convertible 6s it was entitled to subscribe to at a profit of SI.000,000. At last night's close of 21%. Central was a little more
_	Prices
Monday, on the New York Stock seven stocks made new highs and made new lows, for the year 3 934.
High and Low
Atlas I'dr pf Consol Gai pt Olamd Mat pf
Alle<lMbny Cor Al I La Chalmeri Am Br*ke Sb Am Car A Fy Am Com Ale. Am A fror'n f* AmtFarP 7pf AmAFor 2dpf Am Hide A L Am H A L pr American lee. Am *	“
Am Am Am Am Am Am Am ........ _
Amer Zinc . Am Zinc pf.. Anncnnda . .
Anchor Cup Armour of 111 Armnnrlt pf n Ammoc DryG’d* Ati o a w i Auburn Auto. Aviation Corp Baldwin Xxm*o Salt. * Ohio. -BaltAOhlo pf.
R«rlter Bro*. Bnraednll . . Bentllx Avla’n Beat A Co. . . Brtlilehrm St! Beth Steel pf Ktpelow Snnfd Rlnw Knox... Rnrx Hnrorr Bklyn A Q Tr Brunswick Ba Rucyru* Erie Bury E ©▼ pf. Rudd Mfr Co. Budd Mfp nr. Busb Terminal BnrroUfbi Ad Byers. A. M.. Caltt X llecla. Campbell Wy. Cnnadlsn I'ac Cmc. J I.. - . . <’«»l**nr»e Corp Chi & E III pf Chl Grt Went Chi Grt W pf c x fir r * r < >tNti»Ai» i»f . Clt X Nor TV C & Nor W pf f'h Vneiimatlc Ch Parti Tl pf VhI..RTAT» 6of Chl R1AP 7pf Child* Co ... Chrxnler ...
City Stores. . Collin* A- Aik Colnwbln Gao Com Solvents. Consol Gaa... Conan! OU ..
Crown CorkAR Crucible Rtecl Tlrrre A Co,. Dr! * Ilndann Bel.. Lao A TV DenARGW pf. Dominion Stra
Locomofv Pwr A Lt Radiator. Roll MUI. Shlpbldc. Water W. TV onlen pf Writ r pr
New Highs Duq Lt 5*«1pf Nut Biscuit pf So Po R bu pf New Lows Fant'n Roll M Elt intron Sch. Electric PAl.t Equitable OfB Erie ......... Federal LtAT Federal Motor Fimitune Tire Footer WU'ler Foster M bl pl FoundatlonCo. Fox Film A. . Faller GA 2pf Gabriel <	*
Gen ~	'
Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen____
Glmhei Gobrl _____ .
Goodrich .... Goodyear Tire Gotham S Ho Graham Pulse Granby Consol Gt Nor Ore ct Halin Dept St HoudaUlrll B Houiton Oil.. Houston OU n Hud A Man of Hudson A M. Hudson Motor Hupp Motors Illinois Cest'J Inspiration C. Interluke Iron Int Harvester IntFIydruEl A Int PnXPw A. Int PaAPw C Int Tel £ Tel Kansas Cltv t» Kelly Sp Tire.
Kelsey Hav A Lchlcli Vai Cl Liquid Carb’le Loew’s. Inc. .. l.oula & Nash. I.udliim Steel. Menpel Co... Miami Copper Midland Steel Minn A SI L. MSPRSM1.L ct Mn Kon A T M K A T pfA Mn Par pt Motor PriMl’ts •Mclor M heel. Murray Corp.. Nash Motor . Nash C A S L Nnt’l Acme... Nat Ar latino.
Nat Cash Bep Nat Distillers. Nat Pr A Lt N O Tex * M NT Air Brake “7 Y Central.. N T Ch A StL N T Dorje... N T N H A H NTNHAH pf. ” T Ont X W T Rfrys pf T Shlpbldr.
.....j.	A Aaphnlt. Baklnc.. Electric.
.. Ryblsnnl Realty pt Rcfnac <rt Rroa {Adolf)
n
N N N
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Exchange, 241 stocks
Norfolk South Northern Pae. Norwalk Tire. Ohio OU......
Oliver Farm.. Oaena 1 Gla»« ParkUtah Cop Patino Klnea. Penn Dlx Cem Ftenna R R..• Peoria A Eaat Vopire Gaa •hll Jone* pt *lwc© OU pf. •Ittab ScrABo ■*lj-mouth Oil. fortnl TAC pt 'nllman, Inc. •urr OU... 'urlty Bakins Radio Corp -. Radlo-Keltb.. Boo Motor .. . Republic Nteel Ritter Dental. St L-Raa Ft 8tL Sw pf ret* Schenley Diet. Scab Air L pf Shell Union O FLmtron* Co . Son Calif Ed Southern Rwy South's Rv pf Sparka With. Ktrwnrt Vurn Stone S Web. Stuflrbfifcrr .. Superheater . Superior Oil. Telautograph Trnneeaer Cor Tex Par CAO. Tbrrmold C o. Third Avenue Thompson Sta Thmmabtnrr pf Timken Roller Trnnaamerlca Tranane A W Trturon Steel Ulen A Co.. . I n Am Bo*rh Unit Corp .. 17 s Freight.. I* S Leather. U S Leather A VS RealtvAlm V S Rubber .. IT s steel . . Unit Rtorra A 1 nheranl VAR VtiUt'e VAI- A Vnnntllum Cor Ca-Car Chem Ta-CnrCh 6pf Waldorf Ryat Ward Bnk A Warner Piet’a Warren Bro*. WnrrBr cr pf TVra Mnwlaiut Wear M’d 2pf Weat’n Union Weatr Air B Wheellnr Rt’I. Wilrox OtIAG. Wortlilmrton
Tellow Truck Tonnpata'n Sb Zonlte Prod ..