Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 26, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Market Diary		
	Tuesday	
	1934	1933
CaHRkciaey renewal...— .		%%
*yi 90	....		%©%%
		%e%%
		
cable®	.0665%	.0395
0terilaa cables............	4.97	4.74%
	1%%	2%%
System ntio ......	70.0%	66.4%
Coffw, Rio. D®c«nb«r.....	7.70	6-07
	. 9	9
	^78%	30%
Cotton, lOecexnber	32.68	30.09
Hides,' Deccnlxr		6.55	10.65
X«ad. Hew York			3.63	4.50
Oata. "December		52%	39%
Rubber, stead'd Ho. 1 Dec.	35.54	7.90
SIUc. raw, October		1.11	1.76
Silver, Hew York........ .	49%	39%
Sufar. raw. December		1.97	1.51
Tin. December		51.00	46^5
Wheat. December			1.04%	90%
Wnnl tnru.	......	76.3	105.0
Zinc, Rast St- Doula......	4.00	4.75
Stocks staged a vigorous demonstration of strength yesterday, much to the amazement of Wall* Street. Volume expanded to 840,000 shares, the largest total since the third week in August, and gains of two and three points were spread liberally among the standard leaders.
The market started poorly. Influenced by heaviness in commodities and in some of the metal and mining shares. With grain prices down to the lowest levels since July, nervousness over the stock market’s position was intensified but the amount of actual liquidation was negligible.
Around mid-day a buying movement started inconspicuously m the public utility issues and this spread slowly to the rails and leading industrials. Before long, a sleeping short interest being routed on a greatly increased volume adding and brokers were scurrying around xplanations for the unexpected upturn. The tins came back 2% cents to 2% cents from » day’s lows and dosed with net advances of 2% cents to cents a bushel.
Second grade rails led a sharp uprush in bond market, in which all issues except United States Governments participated.
The Curb market was a repetition of big board, with some of the low pricey utilities showing their best advance in months and nu-
the the
the
The Literary Digest does not plan at present to take another nation-wide poll prior to the November elections.
Taking No Chance* On Sinclair
One oA the investment advisory institutions is talcing no chances on the possibilty the electon of Upton Sinclair as Governor of California in November. The suggestion has* been made to its clients that they get out of securities of companies whose major operations are in that state until a clearer picture of how the vote will go is available. One or two houses, with bonds of California municipalities to^seD, are not finding it easy to dispose of them at'any-♦Hing like wh^t they regard adequate prices. Member Bank Statement
Shows Market Liquidation
The statement of the reporting member banks of the Federal Reserve System for the week of' September 19 disclosed a $67,000,000 decline in loans on securities. This was the eleventh week of successive declines. Since early in July, the member hanks have reduced their loans by more than $450,000,000. This in itself undoubtedly accounts for the recent strengthening of the market’s internal position, and its ability to make progress after months of declining tendencies.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies, compared wltn those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow: Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are Included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
/
Increased earnings.......
Decreased earnings.......
Unchanged dividends......
Increased dividends .....
Reduced dividends .......
Accumulated dividends ... Resumed dividends .......
Omitted dividends .......
Initial dividends .......
Since	Additions
July 1	yesterday
412	4
277	4
691	15
56	
12	1
30	
23	1
10	
Exchange,
showing their best advance in months merous specialties sharply higher. Brokers Lulled by Dull Markets Seek Reasons for Rise
While sentiment had improved a financial circles, few were prepared marked an exhibition of strength as that which occurred yesterday. Brokers, lulled by a succession of 500,000-share days and a defeatist attitude, were suddenly galvanized into action seeking explanations for the rise. Some opinions differed sharply, but in the order of their importance the explanations were:
1.	Evidence of a change in heart on the part of the Administration in regard to government loans for municipal utility plants, to be constructed in competition with private plants. This, more than any of the Administration “assurances” on the profit motive, has tremendously impressed private capital.
2.	Recent steadiness in the dollar and a growing conviction that, for the present at least, the Administration has turned its back upon unorthodox schemes for raising price through manipulation in the value of the As a bull market factor, many brokers are ful about this but some believe it should assuring to business men who have been asking for a definite statement on this point. Taken in conjunction ■with the first point, some believe it is a decided turn to the right.
3.	The teennieal position of the market. Loans on the securities have been declining steadily for nearly three months and the upturn started at a point where Wall Street psychology had dropped to the levels which existed just before the bank holiday in March, 1933.
4.	Indications that margin requirements would not be too stringent after October 1 and that the SEC was anxious to be helpful rather than destructive.
Dimmed Inflation Hopes Hit Metal Shares
Whatever the ultimate objective of this era of frenzied finance may be. for the time being, at least, the inflationists are registering disappointment on the New York Stock Exchange. Too many '‘coincidences’’ have occurred recently for their comfort. First, there was the news that a 90-day period of dollar stabilization lay just ahead. In view of the fact that around $900,000,060 m certificates of indebtedness of the government fall due on .December 15, and considering th/* embarrasment of a weak market for government bonds during the recent financing, there appears ample reason for such a policy.
Now, other well founded reports in foreign exchange circles indicate the British Control is buying dollars for the first time since the bank holiday in March, 1933, and moreover, is making no hedge sales in dollar futures. This is the last thing that would be done if any possibility of an early rise in the gold price here were foreseen.
World Commodity Prices In Downtrend
The action of commodity markets is in keeping with a toning down in inflationary sentiment. Many are wondering about the large open interest in the grains. For several months the gTain pit has been a more popular trading center’for Wall Street operators who have become discouraged with dull stock markets. Recent weakness in grains in Liverpool, Rotterdam and Buenos Aires has caused considerable nervousness among traders here. The Argentine has been pressing large quantities of* wheat on the world markets, and it has been figured that there is a distinct possibility that some of it could get into this country and compete for business.
Cotton has been heavy for several weeks, and the American farmer has been losing some of his export trade in competition with .producers.
Business' Organizing on An Active Scale
Business is finally showing signs of nated efforts to assume some sort of ship in shaping national affairs.
little in for so
levels dollar, doubt-be re-
_________________________ 4
High stnd Low Prices
Tuesday, on the New York Stock five stocks made new highs and five stocks made new lows,	"
Highs: McLellan Pete.
Lows:
Erie 2nd pf., Nat. Steel, Tidewater Oil.
for the year 1934:
Coca-Cola A, Columbia Picture ct.. Stor» s. McLellan Stores pf., Simms
Affiliated Pro., Ch., St. P.. M. & Om.,
foreign
coordi-leadership in shaping national affairs. Several organizations have held meetings to discuss policies and place definite ideas before the public. The last of this has not been heard as yet, either. Results of a survey of the New Deal conducted by a leading business men's organ!-ration may be the next development along these lines.
'Incidentally, there have been rumors that sample ballots, sent out recently by an organization which In the past has conducted nationwide polls, have shown a swing away from the Roosevelt policies. The last Literary Digest poll, made public in July, showed that 61.5% of those who voted, favored the policies of the Administration during the first year in office.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.