What's News: Brief Highlights in the Day's Record of Economic and ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 2, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1	-	- -	—	_	-,
What’s News—
President Roosevelt's Sunday night speech was on the tongues of the Wall Street community yesterday. Most of the bankers, brokers and business ment regarded the speech as encouraging in a negative sort of way, agreed it was more temporate than the President’s Green Bay address but less comforting than anticipated. The President's answers to two questions raised by business were seen as indicating more attention from the Chief Executive. The proposed capital-labor peace truce was regarded as comforting.
3IARKETS-
Stocks declined sharply yesterday in moderate volume. Market commenters pointed to the pronounced weakness In commodities as an unsettling factor. Botbr government and corporate bonds, declined slightly in the lightest trading in more than a month. Tbe dollar, however, gained sharply against sterling and moderately against gold currencies.
DOUMERGUE—
In an interview with Karl A. Bickel, president of United Press, France's Premier Doumer-gue pictured his country, the United States and Great Britain as the last safeguards of world democracy. The Premier saw France and the United States both trying to come through the world crisis without sacrificing democracy. Declaring that European peace depends to a great degree on the preservation of democracy, the Premier stated that he is asking for the same sort of power for France’s chief executive that England and the United States have granted. The Premier declared sharply that France must hang on to the gold standard.
AAA---
Milk, wheat and hogs made up the news from AAA's Washington headquarters yesterday. In the Denver and Los Angeles milksheds the AAA increased prices paid to producers. George A. Farrell, chief of the AAA's wheat section, annonuced that the first 1934 wheat? adjustment payment will be nyade shortly. Administer Davis warned that present high hog prices would not last long if farmers abandon production control.
LABOR—
Labor ‘ chiefs yesterday were nodding approval, of President Roosevelt’s, proposed-trial 'truce'between induatzy-xand labor. Most of the eollectivo\bargain-ing upn&ld in-the President’s speech. Secretary of Labor Perkins expressed belief that the suggested conferences between management and labor were primarily to promote a better understanding and use of existing mediation facilities. Announcing that the steel labor board has settled cases involving 15,000 workers, Secretary Perkins^said employers and labor leaders in recent months have been more willing to utilize arbitration methods.
ABROAD—
Foreign flashes: (1) Spain's cabinet, headed by Premier Ricardo Samper, resigned yesterday; (2) from Bucharest came word that the Roumanian cabinet had resigned; (3) reported fearing revolutionary outbreaks, the Cuban cabinet suspended constitutional guarantees in Havana and Onente provinces.
CREDIT—
In a move to encourage lending to expedite his organization's bank capital increase program, RFC
as well as repair and Chairman Jesse Jones yesterday announced reductions in its preferred stock and capital notes dividends and interest rates to banks, trust companies and insurance companies. Mr. Jones expressed expectation of activity soon in connection with efforts to bring about creation of trust companies specializing in mortgages. Regarding proposals for a uniform bank examining system Mr. Jones termed such a move logical and said something should be done along these lines. The RFC head stated that this organization had made industrial loans totaling $13,647,675 and that he understood the Federal Reserve has made some $8,000,000 of such loans.
RATES—
Two Interstate Commerce Commissioners were busy in their Washington offices yesterday as hearings on requested	•	*
higher airmail pay got bat for the railroads Atchison was railroad Fletcher who predicted without higher rates, would probably fail by some $73,000,000 to meet fixed charges this year. Presenting the carriers’ statistical position was Julius Parmalee, director of the Bureau of Railway Economics. Counsel Karl A. Crowley of the Post Office Department testified before Commissioner McManamy that airmail contracts are binding until terminated and that the Postmaster General has power to extend them at present or lower rates.
rail rate increases and uz^der way. First at before Commissioner Counsel Richard V.
the railroad industry.
RELIEF FUNDS—
From Washington yesterday came word that influential Administration officials have worked out a program to finance this winter's relief expenditures by short-term Treasury Issues. These funds would be supplemented by state and local contributions. The short-term financing plan, already presented to the White House with a decision expected soon. Is seen by Treasury circles as a logical financing method designed to meet the desires of tbe banks for short and medium-term obligations.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.