Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 22, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Market
Call money renewal.........
Time money. 90 Any*........
* rrtpTBiirrr. 90 days...... Commercial paper......... franco, cables ............
Sterling cables...........
New Tork bank rate........
Reserve System ratio..--...
Coffee. Rio. September.... Copper, delivered........
Cora, September...........
Cotton. October...........
Hides, September..........
Lead, New Tofk............
Oats, September........	.
Rubber, etand’d No. 1 Sept. Slllc, raw. October........
Silver. New York..........
Sugar, raw, September.... Tin, September...........
Wheat. September.......... . -
Wool tops, September......
Zinc, EmI St. Louis.........
Diary
Tuesday
1934	1933
1«9	1»
	1*
	%©%*
%©155>	1%©1%*
.0667%	.0534%
5.09%	4.49%
1%*	' 2%*
70.151	68.1*
7.95	5.46
9	9
75%	52%
13.39	9.52
6.55	22.40
3.73	4.50
50%	37%
15.58	7.11
1-10	1.79
49%	36
1.73	1.43
51.80	43.35
1.04%	88%
79.0	93.7
4.30	4.85
The monotonous procession of days of shrinking1 volume and price irregularity in the stock market was broken yesterday, the list staging a moderate advance and activity moving up to 580,000 shares. By old standards, the session was a tame affair, but the demonstration that both prices and the trading pace could rise gladdened the financial community. As a group, the railroad shares turned in the best performance. gains in a number of the lower priced shares exceeding a point and running up to close to 3 for such leaders as Union Pacific and .Atchison.
Industrials were higher, also, with Allied Chemical, DuPont, Case, Goodyear, U. S. Smelting and Johns Manville in the van of the advance. At the day's best levels, advances in this group exceeded 2 points. Tobaccos were higher, electricals hardened, fertilizer shares reached new highs, and oils did better. American Telephone was the bright spot in the utility group. The bulk of the day’s trading was in the first two and last hours, with the list closing strong and moderately active at about the day’s highs.
Possibly the better feeling in Wall Street, reflected in share prices, could be traced to the hope that the conferences under way or planned between the President and his advisory councils might be productive of some move calculated to encourage private business. One or two items in the day's railroad news helped that group. The decline in sterling to a new record low in terms of the franc helped to stir interest in the metal shares, particularly the gold minng issues. General trade news was colorless, and word on the labor situation indicated continued possibility of troubles ahead.
The feature of the bond market was the decline in the United States Government issues. Heaviness was general, with losses in some issues amounting to more than -point. Domestic corporation bonds were fairly steady, with changes narrow, except in a few cases like the motion picture company obligations. South American issues were the bright spots in the foreign list.
Aided by strength in foreign markets, particularly Liverpool, grains staged a general advance. Wheat closed up S‘s to 1 % cents a bushel in Chicago, while corn was up 1% to 1J,£ cents. Rye was strong, too. In Winri^, wheat finished unchanged to %-cent higher. Rubber futures rose, and cotton was 12 to 14 points higher.
Irregularity prevailed in the London market. Oil shares were lower. In Faris, the list was quiet.
the second week of August, the other important railroad item appearing yesterday, showed an increase over the corresponding week of 1933. It was the first time gross has been ahead of the comparable week a year ago since the third week In May. Possibly the upturn is just a temporary matter, but conditions in the territory the road traverses, except for the textile industry, are good.	*
More Room for the Bonds
Rearrangement of the bond trading floor, to increase the trading space, is recognition of changed times by the Stock Exchange. While stocks have been in the doldrums, with volume inordinately low, activity has held up in the bond market and investment interest has he**’-sufficient to provide ample business. Much of the addition to the volume in bond trading has been in Government issues, including the **Hokeys” and the "Feds”, added starters. Trading in Governments now constitutes a larger percentage of total volume in bonds than in former years.
Some observers have been cruel enough to comment that when the trend of Government bond prices is being influenced from Washington, the activity has been directed to the floor of the Exchange, where it wiU attract attention, whereas if the buying were done in the over-the-counter market, it wouldn’t draw particular notice. These observers have regarded this as an indication that the powers that be feel moves in the market are worth advertising.
Back at the Highs of the Range
Maybe publication in this country of Major L. L. B. Angas’ glowing forecast on the course of prices had something to do with it, but at any rate, the Dow-Jones industrial average yesterday closed fractionally above the high point of the narrow range which has held for three weeks. The finish of 92.57 compared with the previous top of 91.80 on August 13. The rail average, at the finish, stood at 35.68, compared with 35.75, the previous upper limit of the line formation which has been created in the average. Decisive penetration by both averages of the upper limits of the line which, has formed in them would be regarded as definitely encouraging by technical students. ,
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies, compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations. follow: Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis arc included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
Since		Additions
	Julv 1	yesterday
Increased earnings .—	. . . .	430	4
DprrpftSPfl pprrmgs	± _		 225	5
Unchanged dividends .		 325	17
Increased dividends . ..		 35	Z
Reduced dividends ....		 6	
Accumulated dividends	.... 16	. .
Resumed dividends ....		 IS	1
Omitted dividends . . . .	.	3	
Initial dividends 			 3	• •
High and	Low Prices	
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, nine stocks made new highs and three stocks made new lows, for the year 1934.
New Highs
AmA^T CC t>f	|	Dhimd Mot pf	f	Scott Paper
A—* Asric Del	I	McLellan Star	I	Wewion	OUXS
Colgate I*» pf	I	Newberry pf..	I	Weuon	OU pf
New Lows
niuw Knox .	I	(«en Outdr Ad	}	Lehn &	rink.
Commercial Loans Mount Again
Industry isn’t engaging in any stampede to obtain additional credit from banking institutions, but the Federal Reserve’s condition statement of weekly reporting member banks showed another rise of $8,000,000 in commercial loans, a sign that business men are hopeful enough on the outlook to increase their borrowings. The New York district was one of the few areas to show a*reduction in "all other” loans, the decline here amounting to $6,000,000. A rise of a similar amount in San Francisco was sufficient to offset the drop here, and gains were recorded in almost all other centers. Boston showed the next widest advance, up $3,000,000. In Kansas City, the figure was unchanged from the previous week. The latter center has shown the biggest gains in recent weeks.
The rise in the week ended August 15 was the fourth successive weekly advance. Since the week ended July 18, "all other” loans of reporting institutions have moved up $92,000,000 to $4,531,000,000. An upturn is seasonal at this time, but doubts about fall business led many in the financial district to feel that the gain this year would be of a sub-normal amount. It is too early, yet, to draw any conclusions, but the sustained improvement is a definitely cheering sign. Its continuance might dispel Home of the gloom in the financial district.
The Outlook for the Southeast
Surveying the domestic scene, some in the financial community regard the outlook for the southeastern section of the country over coming months as about as encouraging as that of any other. The cotton crop in the territory is generally good, and if growers obtain current prices for their cotton, when the marketing season rolls around, they will be receiving the best price since June, 1930. Damage to the cotton crop has been concentrated in Texas, Oklahoma and Arkansas, with the staple in good shape in other sections. Farm buying power in the Southeast should be good, and railroads traversing the section should benefit from a substantial movement of the crop. The height of the shipping season usually comes in early October.
In other directions the picture is moderately encouraging. In Georgia, at the early auction warehouse sales, tobacco farmers got the best prices for flue-cured leaf since 1927, the average of 22.6 cents a pound comparing with 13.2 cents s year ago. Prices at the early sales in South Carolina showed eqaully substantial gains. The citrus fruit crop outlook in Florida is good now, with the government estimating production of 28.500,000 boxes, against 28,000,000 last year. Quality is reported as above average for this time of year.
Minor Aid for the Carriers
The Chesapeake & Ohio July report and Southern Railway’s gross earnings for the second week in August were enough to lift some of the clouds which have been depressing the railroad picture. In view of the fact that C. & O.’a statement for the month reflected the 2Vs% wage increase, it was surprisingly good. Gross was down $1,899,000 from the corresponding month of 1933, while net operating income was off only $1,300,000, despite the fact that the 2*£% wage increase was included in operating costs. The figures demonstrate how close a hold the C. & O.’s management has on operating expenses. Possibly reports from other carriers for July will show that railroad managements have taken similar steps to retrench.
The	Railway's gross revenues in
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.