Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 29, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
A breast
of
the Market
Market Diary	Friday	
	1934	1933
Call mosey renewal		1%	1%
Time money, 90 days......	V 'h 1%	
Acceptances, 90 day*......	A <t«	’•» <-o
Commercial paper			1%	
Franc*, cable*			.0680 V	.0508
Sterling cables			4.93V	5 07
Vnrle	r*t«>	.		
Reserve System ratio......	70.7%	63.9%
Coffee. Rio, Mav			7 32	6 59
Copper, delivered 		9	
Corn. May					90H	50 V
Cotton, May 			12 75	10 41
Hide*, June. .............	9.93	10.70
Lead, New York. 			3 70	4 15
Oat*. May		53 U	36 V*
Rubber, stand’d No. X May	13 20	9 38
Silk, raw. May		1 40	1 37
Sliver, New York....		54 V	4< V
Sugar, raw. May		1.89	1 33
Tin. May		50 55	52 60
Wheat. May				100 V	83 S.
Wool top*. May		77 9	106 0
Zinc, East SU Loui*		3.725	4.35
*With the pressure of tax selling lifting, yesterday’s stock market blossomed out into a broad rise embracing all groups. The 30 industrial stocks used in the Dow-Jones averages shot ahead for gains of 2.89 points, regaining practically al! the ground lost since December 7. Rails displayed the first sustained strength since December 3, 20 issues advancing 1.01 points, while the utility average also showed substantial progress on a percentage basis.
Through most of the morning the trend was not clear cut. While the date for routine tax selling for 1934 expired on Thursday, there was still a considerable volume of offerings for cash. But the market showed more readiness to absorb these offerings and firmer tendencies spread from the steels and farm equipments, which had been carrying the burden on tr»e upside for the past few sessions, to a inorc representative group of issues. Motor shares surged forward shortly after mid-day and lifted the motor accessory stocks with them. Rayon stocks, oils, mail order and chain stores swung into line in the later trading and finally the movement attained sufficient momentum to initiate a broad move m the sluggish rail issues
The rails had a good background to inspire buying. Reports on Loadings for individual roads for the past week indicated that the combined statement, which was issued after the close, would make an exceptionally fine showing. It lived up to its promise, the gain lifting the Dow-Jones index on rail traffic to the Highest levels for the year at 75.1, bettering the previous 1934 peak of 73.S registered in the week ended February 17.
Utilities were the hardest pressed by cush tax selling, their extremely low levels making them ideal for such transactions, but they shook off this influence in the late trading. On the Curb Exchange, numerous specialties scored sharp gains, including Aluminum Co. of America, Carrier Corp., Pittsburgh Plate Glass, Sherwin williams and A. O. Smith.
Bonds moved up sharply in the late dealings after a morning of irregularity. Commodities were moderately better.
New England Business Improving
Business m New England is beginning to pick up. after lagging for some time behind the rest of the country. One of the big department store chains, located in many representative parts of the country’, was distinctly disappointed with the showing made by the New England group. Whereas stores in the Middle West, the South and Southwest were showing decided improvement over the preceding year, the New England stores were running until recently behind the 1933 levels.
1 With the textile industry experiencing a sharp pick-up in activity, purchasing power in New England should undergo a definite change for the better. To some extent increased industrial activity has already been reflected in the larger use of electric power in that part of the country recently.
As far as the textile mills are concerned, they appear to be due for a better year in 1935 In charting the course of the textile business over a period of years statisticians have found that it runs in two-year cycles. The first important recent upturn got under way in 1933. and 1931 was a year of reaction.
Canadian Dividends Near Peak
December dividend payments by Canadian corporations w’ere close to record proportions, according to compilations by Canadian brokerage offices. The total of S47.000.000 was exceeded only by December, 1930. and was more than double the S22.500.000 paid in December, 1933. The previous weak was $50,200,000.
Payments for the year will come close to S200.000.000, and compare with $141,000,000 for 1933 and $162,700,000 m 1932.
Inland Steel’s Price Rise
Inland Steel ha-s led other stocks in the steel group in the rising market for those issues recently. During the past pionth or more the stock had advanced from a little over 40 to a high of 54. Inland’s operations arc particularly well suited to th*-* volume of steel business and the manner in which it has been coming m recently. It has had the distinction of showing the largest quarterly share earnings in the past year when volume was at its best in the second quarter, and it showed a slight loss
m me mira quarter when volume for the industry as a whole dropped sharply.
The stock is rather closely held. Recently some brokers were negotiating for some large sized blocks of stock outside the market, but they were unable to get the volume they wanted. This may have forced them in	‘
market.
The location of the plants in area is quite favorable, tapping	_
areas, heavy manufacturing centers and the motor market. For this reason other producers frequently have approached the company with merger offers.
Bargain Hunting With Cash
Normally, the trader with a strong liquid position can make some profitable turns in the market around the end of the year. Those who wait until the last moment before establishing tax sales stocks go at oppo r turn ti es
However, operators came down town yesterday prepared to pick up these offerings. Other buyers were around also with the idea that a rebound after the turn of the year would give them quick profits. As a result, the demand for stocks was quite active, both for cash and in the lar way. and the tax seller who delayed the last moment made out better than who were selling earlier in the week.
Sales of United States Smelting for at 124. while the stock was selling in the lar way at 1211-}, puzzled some tape watchers in brokerage offices This was explained by the fact that the stock went cx-dividcnd yesterday, and $3 was taken off the price on regular transactions. The cash buyer, in other words, was not entitled to the dividend, q-mh had to figure this in the price of the commitment
Profit Taking In Liquor Shares
Some of the liquor shares have had good advances over the past few months, but they are still generally selling on a low ratio to this year’s earnings. The earnings for this year, however, are considered by some to be exceptionally good, and the outlook for 1935. from a profit standpoint, is not at all clear cut. Much of the current profits must be reinvested in inventories to build up supplies of aged liquor.
With this in mind, some profit taking came into National Distillers and a few of the other liquor shares, after the former had declared the 50-ccnt dividend on the stock.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies. compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow* Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
to the open
the Chicago the farming
usually are compelled to let their a concession for cash, and good often exist tor the buyer.
many brokers and professional
Increased earnings .......
Decreased earnings .......
Unchanged dividends ......
Increased dividends ......
Reduced dividends ........
Resumed dividends ........
Accumulated dividercis .... Omitted dividends ........
Initial dividends.........
High and Low
Friday, on the New York Stock
regu-until those
Since	Additions
Oct 1	Ycstordav
385	2
501	
859	14
131	
26	1
45	1
37	
10	
10	. .
Prices	
Exchange, twenty-three stocks made new highs and four stocks made new lows, for tile
New Highs Gen Clear nou<lullleft A Iloudnltlrlt fl tnrtuar lla.'on Inland Muttili-Hon pf. M«*< rorj'Storee MrCron tt New Lows Mar St Hy pf NYN11&11 pf.
Amerlcnn Can Am Rnfevs* Be-titrlccCr of Bore Warner Ilriggn Mfc Caterpillar Tr t'oDMUl C 7pr Deere & Co. pf
Enfflncert T* R (<en Elec spec
Pure
'or
year 1934.
Mewtn Machin Morrrl £ Co.
Air Bruhe Otb» tCIrvnt pf SplcM-rl Mny -LS Gvtwum pf Wesson OUX8
Gossip—
A strong, fairly active stock market developed in spite of the “cabh” transactions and the inertia of the professional group. The trade news was pleasing to the Street and investors and this was reflected in market operations.
Pivotal shares like Steel and Can weie among the favontes which was pleasing because some of these shares in the last couple of months have “hung back.” American Can, especially, was in strong demand.
Brokers arc bullish on aviation shares, low priced rails and silver stocks.
Investment trusts are making some substantial switches at the moment and some of the sharp advances in certain shares represents such buying.
West is buying farm machinery shares, especially Harvester, and is talking a big increase in business for this company in 1935.
who are looking for higher silver prices before the New Year is very old.
Motors are in demand, with Chrysler and General Motors among the most active issues. Detroit continues a buyer of these as well as the motor accessories.
•
Second hands in the textile trades report a heavy and increasing demand for textiles, especially cottons. Woolen companies, too, are doing a largely increasing business with a steady improvement in the volume of orders on hand.
—The Broad Street Gossip
One broker had 1.500 shares of a fairly active stock to sell at “reasonable” prices, and it took him three days to dispose of it. owing tc the narrow condition of the market in the stock. This has markets recently.
been the case with at least until Friday.
many
Foreigners are buying again and some fairly substantial orders from London and the Continent have been executed here in the last couple of sessions.
*
Selling of International Telephone & Telegraph is regarded as largely tax selling rather than offerings of the stock on the basis of any internal company affairs.
Silver shares continue to be bought by those
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.