DIP IN TRADE UPSETS STOCKS: STORMY WEATHER, LABOR TROUBLE CWA ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 26, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
mi’ IN TRADE
UPSETS STOCKS
Stormy Weather, Labor Trouble
CWA Layoffs, Curb Bull-
ish Enthusiasm
The Week Reviewed
Clouds on the business horizon In the form of labor difficulties in motor and motor equipment company plants and a slight let-down in some lines of business brought unsettlement to the security markets at the close of the past week. The upward trend of business has supported the securities markets through the trying events ot the past three weeks, both at home and abroad, and any sign that there might be even a temporary deviation in the rising curve was bound to act as a damper on those constructively inclined.
Unusually stormy weather was in part responsible for the slowing down in business in some sections. In addition, the decline was attributed to the reduction in the Civil Works Administration force. The financial community has been somewhat nervous over the effect on business of paring- down CWA working forces, and initial reports weren’t particularly encouraging. Between now and May 1 private Industry and the FWA are going to be called on to absorb the more than 3,100,000 on the CWA payrolls. If they cannot be absorbed, then mass purchasing power is going to suffer, and business volume will suffer, too.
The major indices of business still are most constructive. Steel operations are rising and incoming orders are in good volume. Railroad t-offin in the latest week was ahead ot previous weeks, continuing the normal seasonal expansion. More encouraging, weekly traffic is totaling a higher percentage of the 15-year average now than it was earlier in the year. The dip in business is coming in consumer goods buying in some sections.
The whole question of security market regulation is before Congress, with no indication yet of what the fate of the Fletcher-Rayburn bill will be. Various groups of stocks still are being affected by Government Interference with private business. Packing shares were sufferers during the past week, dropping on Secretary Wallace’s complaint against 10 companies, charging attempts to manipulate and control prices to retailers in certain one section of the country.
Gold Used to Buy More Gold
This week’s Federal Reserve statements reveal that the Treasury again paid for gold imports by depositing with the Reserve Banks certificates against some of its free gold and creating balances at the Banks in this way. Whereas monetary gold stocks Increased $114,000.000 as the result of Imports from abroad, gold certificates held by the Reserve Banks rose $130,000,000, thus for the second week exceeding the monetary gold rise by $16,000,000.
The Treasury now can use the foreign gold bought from importers to buy still more metal. The gold being used by the Treasury for issuance ot certificates to the Reserve Banks is largely metal previously acquired abroad or bought from domestic producers out of ordinary budgeted receipts. Therefore, the use ot this gold in this way does not mean the Treasury is spending any of the profit resulting from dollar devaluation.
Money in circulation increased $23,000,000 during the week ended Wednesday. The rise reflected currency needs over the holiday and was probably temporary m nature. Treasury cash and deposits at the Federal Reserve banks rose S10S,000.000 as the result of the latters’ subscription to new Treasury issues.
New York City reporting member banks showed a gam of $92,000,000 in loans on securities and of $105,000,000 in government securities holdings, following payment for Treasury issues early in the week. The rise in loans reflected the borrowings of government security dealers to carry their increased portfolios over the financing period. Government deposits at New York banks rose $216,000,000.
Gold Imports Slowing Down
Evidence accumulated last week that the record breaking rush of gold to the United States from Europe is beginning to lose its appearance of break neck haste. Receipts at New York were on as heavy a scale as before but reports from abroad indicated that engagements for space on departing vessels were not as large as formerly.
Particularly’ important was the fact that the French franc moved steadily upward until by the end of the week it was just a shade under the lower gold point. It now has only a short distance to go before it will no longer be profitable to export gold from Paris to New York on an exchange basis. A fair profit can still be made on gold purchased in London, but here again the margin of profit is narrowing.
On the whole, the exchange market has been very quiet and steady. One of the most notable features has been the almost complete lack of wild fluctuations which characterized the market at the time of the American return to gold.
Italian lire were an exception to the general movement of gold currencies, a generally soft tendency being noted. It was not believed that the softness originated in New York. Offerings here were very small.
Steel. Rate at 43.6%
Steel activity gained renewed vigor, operations for the industry as a whole being placed at 43.6% of capacity by the American Iron & Steel Institute. In the preceding week operations were placed at 30.9%. In spite of this marked increase In schedules for the start of the week, additional furnaces were lighted by mid-week and it was apparent that the operating rate near the week’s close was even better than that scheduled for the start.
The widest gains were noted in the Youngstown district, the full impact ot automobile orders for flat rolled steels hitting mills in that district. Demand for steel from makers of kitchen ware, refrigerators and other miscellaneous lines also contributed.
For the first time this year the mills making heavy products at such centers as Pittsburgh and Chicago began to show signs of a marked pick-up.
The tone in the scrap markets continues strong and steel men are looking forward to sustained operations at current or higher levels in the immediate future. The only disturbing element is the strikes at some of the motor and motor accessory plants.
Cotton Rallies from Lows
A downtrend in cotton futures during the forepart of the week carried quotations $1.50 a bale tower before it was halted. March liquidation for the first notice day, which was Friday, operated against the market, while some observers reported that upturns brought out more sell-
ing from the South. With Worth Street in a lull, buying for the domestic trade became less aggressive and foreign spinners engaged in price fixing only on market recessions.
As had been the case during the previous week, outside interests took their cue for buying or selling mainly on Washington advices concerning the outlook in Congress for the Bankhead bill, providing compulsory cotton control, and the Smith bill, by which about 1,500,000 bales of cotton would be purchased by the Government for relief purposes.	.
Meanwhile, returns from the campaign for voluntary acreage reduction indicated that the full quota of acres, or more, had been attained by the drive. On the other hand, surveys of planting intentions pointed to the possibility that higher prices might result in considerable new land being laid out to cotton.
Daily price fluctuations of about a cent a bushel and a restricted volume of trading continued in Chicago wheat, with the market at times displaying weakness under small selling pressure, and with the general trend line for the week lower. More favorable moisture conditions in the western and southwestern wheat belts stilled, for the time being at least, talk of major crop scare. Millers became less aggressive buyers of cash wheat, and demand in general for cash grain turned quiet.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.