Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 3, 1935;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Market Diary
-Call monay noew*l. ...... .
Time money* 90 day*.. ....
Acceptances, 90 day*.......
Commercial paper...........
Francs, cable*.......
Steriin* cables.............
New York bank rate....... Reserre System ratio.......
Coffee, Bio, Dec.• Copper, delivered..........
Corn, Dec..........
Cotton, Dee............
Hides, Dec.................
Dead, New Fork.............
Oats, Dec............
Rubber, Dec................
Silver, New York.........
fluicar. raw, Dec..........
Tin, Dee.....................
Wheat. Dee...............
Woo! tops, Dec..............
Zinc, Sas* St. Douls..... ..
By Robert Laftan
Stocks succumbed to a variety of unfavorable influences yesterday. Most conspicuous among surface disturbances were the war preparations in Africa but underneath and fully as important was the uninspiring position of many American railroads. The latter influence has been cumulative rather than sudden and yesterday it was intensified in the widely publicized bickering between bankers and the RFC head over methods of financing New York Central's demand loans. Though liquidation was general and persistent. New York Central common was a focal point for railroad selling and the stock suffered more percentagewise than any other leading issue, dropping nearly 3 points on the day. The market suffered one of the worst setbacks of the year, with the tape lagging as much as ' 4 minutes behind floor transactions at times.
Selling started from the opening and picked up momentum through various Btages of the later trading. Though there were pauses from time to time there was little indication of a rally and initial fractional losses were extended through the afternoon to deeper setbacks, ranging from 2^ to 4 points for representative issues. The Dow-Jones average price of thirty industrial stocks ended with a loss of 3.45 points on the day. RailB dropped 1.55 points to 32.61, well under their August lows, while utilities dropped 91-100 of a point. Volume expanded to 2.190,000 shares.
Commodity markets enjoyed a boom in contrast to the tumble in stocks. Some of the grain options advanced the limit at one time and final gains of 3 cents to 4 cents a bushel were commonplace. Cotton soared nearly $2 a bale. The bond market was hard hit, particularly second and high grade railroad issues. United States government issues also slumped.
FOREIGN ANOMALY—
One of the anomalies of the market situation is the fact that while Americans appear quite pessimistic over tbe European situation and are using it as an excuse to sell stocks none of the major financial centers of Europe appear to be taking part actively in tbe liquidation in this market. Brokers handling big foreign accounts have been a little surprised. Some thought that Lxsndon, particularly, was displaying altogether too much calm and that last-minute selling would break out.
After the close of yesterday's market several houses checked their books and found almost as much London buying here as selling. Including Faris' operations sell and buy orders about balanced. Foreign participation on the whole was well under levels of big days in the past few months.
Selling was described as of Wall Street origin in some quarters, largely professional, with some investment liquidation from the Mid-West.
• • •
BUSINESS INDICES-------
Some statisticians are not as impressed with business results for the third quarter of this year as they thought they might be. The results, when compiled and adjusted, made a good comparison with the second quarter but were hardly as impressive as in the first quarter of 1935. Nor did the quarter as a whole live up to the promise it gave near the end of July.
It is possible, that the motor industry, which is still a main cog in the business machine, affected the total showing through August and September. Despite attempts to flatten out business curves by moving up the new motor models there was a noticeable gap while automobile plants were getting ready to produce new models. Motor activity should expand in the next two months but It is an unpropitious time to attempt to sell cars and It is question-
able how big an inventory will be accumulated merely to spread work.
• • *
RETAIL TRADE—
There has been a good deal of optimistic predicting, in Wall Street at least if not in the trade itself, about retail prospects for the fall season. It remains to be seen whether these predictions will be borne out. Retail trade, judging by the Federal Reserve adjusted index, made its best showing in July and tapered slightly during August. The September figures , will not be available for weeks but judging by private estimates tbe past month was not very impressive. In fact some of the bigger retail distributors, representing a fair cross section of this business, have experienced a distinctly slower rate of gain and a few will be lucky to equal the volume for September a year ago.
• * •
RAIL TRAFFIC—
Railroad traffic came forward Impressively in September but any hopes that might have been aroused on this score were short-lived, partly due to August's disappointing showing and partly to the knowledge that the spurt in September was partly at the expense of October's showing. The artificial stimulation in the coal movement was a big factor and though miscellaneous freight has improved impressively it has not been sufficient to compensate for the reduced coal movement.
* * «
ELECTRIC AND STEEL OUTPUT—
Electric power consumption has held up fairly consistently and still remains one of the brighter features of the business picture. Utility authorities deny that the wider use nf electric appliances has much to do with the showing for they contend that it could hardly make a pronounced impression on the total figures. In recent weeks they have been somewhat surprised themselves at the continued vitality in consumption.
Steel output also has held up particularly well, though without railroad and heavy structural buying operations should find it easier sagging from the 50-55% level than rising.
e *	•
INVENTORIES—
Generalizations about the Inventory situation In principal industries are hazardous and it is hard to say at any given moment that tbe situation is sound or unsound. So much depends upon later developments, upon the unpredictable purchasing power of consumers in months and seasons ahead, that- current estimates represent little more than guesswork.
However, it has been contended that inventories have been held reasonably low in relation to the rate of retail distribution. Certainly, the recent growth in optimism has developed slowly and fairly orderly and has not been stimulated abnormally by inflationary gestures of the type that inspired widespread inventory accumulation in 1933 and early 1934.
HOW THEY STAND—	’
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with tbe previous declarations, follow:
	Since	Additions
Increased earnings:	Oct. 1	yesterday
Industrials 				 5	3
Rails 			
Utilities 			 7	5	-
Decreased earnings: Industrials 			 2	1
Rails 		1	1
Utilities 			 3	3
Unchanged dividends .,		 24	10
Increased dividends ...		
Reduced dividends ....		
Resumed dividends ...		
Accumulated dividends	....	fl	2
o •	• HIGH AND LOW PRICES	 Wednesday on the New York		Stock Ex-
change six stocks made new highs and 16 stocks made new lows, for the year 1935.
New Highs
Amer Met 6 pf Gen Ci*ar pf
New Lows
Am Sagar. . .
Andi Cap pt. Atl Refining. Bon Ami B . Can Paetflo . Cora Prod Kaf
Gen Ry Rl* pf Int Mer Mar.
Det * M pr Gran CS p p ret Int Sait . ...
Lambert . X T SMpbld pf
Maying pf ww U S Gypstun pf
OllverFarm a Pfeiffer Brew. Rep SU pf A. Btd <H1 Kan. Sotfc’M Paper.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.