Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 9, 1935;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13	-.
yl breast of
the Market
Market Diary
Can money renewal. ....... Time txxm*ry, «o days.......
Acceptances, 90 day*....... Commercial paper............
Francs, cables .............
Steriinc cables.............
New York bank rate..........
Reserve System ratio.......
Wednesday
193d

1934
loadings	as the poorest of the busi-
ness indices, while the steel operating rate is slipping gradually, but is still at a level that is profitable to the industry generally.
• * •
Coffee. Rio. Joly............
Copper, delivered............
Corn, July...................
Cotton, duly...........
Hides, Jane..................
Lead, New York...............
Oats. July...................
Rubber, *tand*d No. 1 July
Silk, raw, July..............
Silver. New York.............
Sugar, raw, July.............
Tin, Julv.................
Wheat, July..............
Wool tops. July..............
Zinc, Rast St. Xxral*........
•73.0%
“Si
2% «3.«7o
Thirty stocks used in the Dow-Jones industrial averages were swept forward to the highest levels since November 10, 1931, yesterday in a market that started slowly but which developed increasing breadth and momentum as the session progressed. Volume, again expanding with rising prices, totaled 1,390,000 shares against 810,000 shares the day before. The industrial averages soared 2.84 points to 112.63, -while utilities gained 72-100 of a point and rails 45-100.
There was little in the news of the day to account for the abrupt reversal in prices, the move apparently originating from within the market itself, growing out of an improved technical position as a result of the two preceding days of selling.
Traders were moderately hopeful of a minor rally and there was some early buying on this account. But as the session wore on, and the market showed remarkable ability to absorb all profit-taking and surge ahead further, it became evident that something more	a minor rebound from the previous
weakness was taking place. Oils, motors, motor accessories, farm equipment, machinery, silver mining and merchandising stocks were well represented in the gains, which ranged from one to more than 3 points in numerous cases.
Utilities participated fairly willingly in the rise, but the rails edged ahead more on the sheer momentum of the move rather than through any original strength. The close for the market as a whole was at about the best levels of the day.
Bonds showed no pronounced strength, but commodities were higher.
* • •
OILS—
Belief is spreading in spite of past disappointments that the current upturn in oils is no false move. In the past few days they have attracted the attention of some fairly substantial long-pull bikers.
The refining companies are being favored over companies whose interests lie largely in crude, for the latter type of company generally speaking has already enjoyed a good move marketwise. The refiner’s ••recovery,” which is the difference between the cost of a barrel of crude and the products obtained from it, is now larger than it has been in some time and the refining companies are expected to make a relatively good showing in the second quarter.
Those who have studied the gallonagc of sales in relation to capital structure of refining companies believe Standard Oil of Ohio is well situated in the event of a rising gasoline market, with Atlantic Refining. Texas Corp., Gulf Oil and Tide Water also favored.
RAIL BONDS—	'
Until the railroad bond market shows unmistakable evidence of attracting a strong demand many traders are not going to be interested in rail shares. Rail stocks may be well situated technically and it is noteworthy that they fail to decline much below the 30 level in the averages. Their action has been negligible recently rather than definitely unfavorable, but intelligent speculation requires something more than mere hope to invite important buying.
Events appear to be favoring the rails, for industrial expansion cannot go much further without embracing railroads and permitting them to share part of the gain3 being experienced elsewhere. Second grade rail bonds were lifted yesterday but they were carried along more by the strength in the stock market than by anything else. a sustained demand for these bonds would boost sentiment materially.
HOW THEY STAND—
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those tor the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
Increased earnings......
Decreased earnings..... Unchanged dividends... Increased dividends ... Reduced dividends.. ... Resumed dividends.... Accumulated dividends Omitted dividends......
Since	Additions
April 1	yesterday
...399	6
...269	9
. . .329	17
. . . S	1
...10	1
. . . IS	
. . . 45	i
2
HIGH AND LOW PRICES— Wednesday, on the New
______________________________ Stock Exchange, eighty-six stocks made new highs and eight stocks made new lows, for the year 193o.
New Highs Air Reduction 4mrrud&
Am Intrrnnt*! Am Mrtnlw 6pf Am 1* & L pf Am FAT. pf A Am HiulAs pf Am Smnlllnjr.
Am >mclt pf. Am Tri A Tri Am Toliiicto . Am Tolmrro R Anaconda	.
Arcbrr Dan’b Ttanffor&Ar pf Bklyn-Mnn pf Budd Wheel. Rurraiurh* Ail Cntrrpitlur Tr fratl Asrnlrre Chi Pnrn T pf Chile Copper Chrj *lrr ....
Col Picture ct Cotovn Carbos Com lniTru»t Com & son pf Conde	.
ConnolRKC pf Neu Lows
Anchor Cnp.. Colfatr1 Palm Com Cr 6cv re
Contisen’l Oil < orn Prod Ref Crowley
Crown Ck<fcSl Cub Am S pf *>rrre A Co pf Detroit Edtw’u Dome Mine**..
El P A l.t 6pf El P X L. 7pf 6rnBiikh>K pf firn Clear pf. Otliette pf.. . (ItuintHnHS pf Hark Water IlntCor pf«rw Hazel A thaw Cl Homewtake M Xncerwotl R Inlnnd Meet.
1st Malt -----
Kuttfmun D S Krnnecott . Lehman Corp Mn^tar 1*t pf
I In Pl Mcrrh&NIn T. Mlwa'nn .Corp Nnt Snpp pfd
York
In:cr»tntr I> ** Thntrhrr MfK Vol* rict Ipf
Otto Elev* pf Par Oaw A E! People* Claw. . Phillip* Petro Fun»»erNJ 5pf PuhSerNJ 6pf PnhSerNJ 7pf Keo Motor... Roan Antelope Scott Paper.. Seab Oil (Dr!) >h< 11 1 Oil pf Snrlh Oil. .. Skelly Oil of*. So Port o Rleo Stand Oil Cal Stand Oil Ind Stand Oil NJ Tliirwut Amoc Tldrw Aw«oc pf Trim* Truer., l-nion Carbide I nion OU tai Unit Fruit .. TJ S Tobar Wrwtlns Elec Wrat El 7 of !oun< SpJSWI
Wabnah pf H Yellow Trk pf
CONSTRICTION—
The sharp recovery in residential building in the last month was confirmed by the Dodge figures on April construction. More surprising and significant were tbe figures on total construction. It has been a well known fact that types of construction other than residential have been lagging, largely because PWA activities were at their peak a year ago and so far this year that form of expenditure has been at a low ebb.
Despite the handicap of lessened PWA work, total construction for April amounted to $124,000,000 against $122,940,000 in March and $131,157,000 in April a year age. A far greater amount of private construction went into the April total than was the case either in March or in April a year ago.
PRIVATE FINANCING—
A resumption of private enterprise and the use of private capital is not likely to burst upon the market at once, announcing that the “corner has been turned” with its arrival. It is only m looking back that the evidence seems as clear cut as that. In the meantime the trend is the thing that counts, and it cannot be denied that private initiative in several directions has been playing a larger part in business recovery than at any time in the past few years.
The complaint a short time ago that the capital market had opened only to refunding issues is being answered by the growing number of large corporations that are also entering the murket for new money, some of which is being used for new construction. National Steel. National Distillers. United Biscuit and American Rolling Mill are among Lbe latter group.
• • •
POWER OUTPUT—
Power consumption for the week ended May 4 has snapped back sharply, showing a 4% gain over a year ago as against a gain of 0.3r^ in the preceding week. Instead of dipping below a year ago, as many in and outside of the utility industry anticipated a short time ago, the power consumption figures continue to attest to a healthy business situation, which may be slipping slowly and seasonally in some directions, but at a much more moderate pace than pessimists have imaglneJ.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.