What's News: Stocks, Bonds, Commodities Sell Lower Congress Finishes ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 20, 1935;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 1
Stocks, Bonds, Commodities Sell Lower — Congress Finishes Banking and Rail Bills
AS Congress began what Washington leaders hope will prove to be the last week of the session, security and commodity markets yesterday were generally weaker arid unsettled. A wave of liquidation in the last hour of trading—shortly after the House passed the Guffey coal control bill—pushed stock prices substantially lower. The Dow-Jones industrial average closed at 126.33, off 1.63 from Saturday, largest drop since May 29. The railroad average declined 1.47 to 35.51, the widest set-back in that group since October 25, 1934. The utilitj’ average was 1.17 lower at 27.01. Transactions yesterday totaled 2,070,000 shares, of which some 720,000 shares changed hands in the final hour.'	’
* • »
Corporation bonds also declined on fairly heavy trading. Second grade railroad issues were hardest hit. Government securities were steady.
* • •
The Dow-Jones index of commodities futures lost 0.60, closing at 53.10. Grains were fractionally lower, losses in corn futures ranging up to about one cent. Silk, cocoa and-rubber all declined. The cotton markets remained on edge as conflicting reports continued to come in from Washingtoft regarding the possibility of a 12-cent loan for the new crop. Prices were little changed at the close, however. Silver declined moderately in London and Montreal, but Handy & Harman's New York price remained at 655,-g cents an ounce.
• * • -
Copper proved to be an exception to the general trend. On the second largest volume of sales this year, the domestic spot price of the red metal advanced V2 cent to 8.5c a pound and export quotations were also higher, crossing eight cents for the first time since early last June. Sugar also attracted attention on the upside as the result of “squeeze” talk in connection with No. 1 contracts which involve delivery of the Cuban product.
• • *
Passage of the Guffey bill by the House was not. of course, the only important Washington development. Both House and Senate took final action on the banking bill and the railroad retirement bill-
sending those two measures to the White House. The Senate passed the Frazier-Lemke farm financing bill, which hasn’t yet been acted on by the House. Nor has the Senate voted vet on the Guffey coal bill.
• • •
Business and corporation news continued mixed. DuPont raised its regular quarterly common dividend to 90 cents from 65 cents and declared a 35-cent extra—which represents, in part, the disbursement of DuPont’s increased third quarter income from its General 'oters investment. Kansas City Southern, first railroad to issue July figures, showed its first 1935 gain in gross and net operating income over year-ago levels. Loadings reports from other lines for the week of August 17 were generally better than in the preceding week. The ICC authorized lower rates on lumber moving from the Pacific Coast to eastern territory, by which the railroads expect to obtain more of such traffic.
Steel operations this week were estimated at 48.8 % of capacity by. the American Iron & Steel Institute, a gain of seven-tenths of a point. American Locomotive reported a six months loss of $772,225 compared with a $1,288,966 loss in the like 1934 period. National Tea’s sales in the four weeks ended August 10 were 2.4% below last year as compared with a 2.5% increase for the 32 weeks to that same date.
• • •
Fifty-nine telephone companies reporting to the FCC had net operating income of $93,675,602Mn the first half of 1935, compared with $96,912,237 in the first half of last year.
• * *
Demand deposits of reporting member banks in 91 leading cities advanced $206,000,000 in the week ended August 14 according to Federal Reserve figures released last night. This was due to heavy LT. S. Treasury expenditures. Commercial loans increased $7,000,000 and holdings of government-guaranteed and other securities increased $9,000,000 but this was more than offset by a $29,000,000 drop in the banks’ portfolio of regular government issues.
WASHINGTON HIGHLIGHTS--------
Although yesterday saw final action in Congress on the banking bill and the railroad pension bill, as well as House passage ot the GuITey bill, and Senate passage of the Frazier-Lemke farm measure, night fell with the controversial utility bill still in deadlock, despite earlier reports of a compromise.
Not had conferees on the tax bill and th* alcohol control bill seen fit to announce the completion of their work—perhaps for strategic reasons.
Some differences of opinion were still existent concerning the probable fate of the TVA amendments too.
The House did, however, approve the Grand Coulee and Parker dams—checked by a Supreme Court ruling—when it adopted the conference report on the omnibus rivers and harbors b.ll
Committee activity during the day Included another appearance of Howard C. Hopson before the Senate lobby investigating group, House Ways and Means Committee work on the railroad tax measure to furnish funds for the pension plan, and bearings on the Walsh bill before the House Judiciary Committee. The latter measure, providing that government contractors meet NRA requirements, has already been passed by the Senate.
President Roosevelt heard more about tho cotton loan problem when Secretary Wallace. Secretary Morgenthau and RFC Chairman Jones discussed it with him for an hour and a half.
The President announced that he will address the Young Democrats Club of America next Saturday night by radio, and signed an executive order prescribing rules for farm-loan making by the Resettlement Administration.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS-------
(1) British diplomats, returning from Paris where the conference to keep peace in Africa collapsed last week, consulted with Sir Samuel Hoarc, Foreign Minister, who reported to King George earlier in the day. An emergency Cabinet meeting is expected soon to consider policies. (2) Ethiopia's Emperor prohibited exports of capital in excess of $250 without special permits. (3) The United Press, in a copyrighted Rome dispatch, reported that Mussolini is almost ready to wage war on Ethiopia and, by reason of his arrangements to make Italy self-sufficient with respect to wartime commodities, does not fear League of Nations or British economic sanctions.
LABOR—
New York Shipbuilding Corp., its Camden yards still tied up by a strike, asked Acting Secretary of the Navy Roosevelt to give the union 24 hours in which to accept arbitration and agree to furnish government protection to employes who wish to work in case the arbitration offer is turned down. Meanwhile, leaders of the union were reported enraged by a Newark Federal Court order calling on them to appear Friday for hearing on a restraining order. A similar application is already under advisement by Vice Chancellor Francis B. Davis at Camden. ..
Ohio Federation ot Labor delegates, meeting at Columbus, called on William Green. A. F. of L. president, to order to general strike against WPA policies. But New York, WPA •'strike" center, seemed to be little affected by protest movements.
Toledo auto workers' union leaders who conducted the Chevrolet strike last Spring were re-elected to office by big majorities in heavy week-end voting. A conservative ticket was badly beaten.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.