Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 28, 1936;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
Abreast
of
the Market
past year, yesterday
By Robest Laffan
Running true to the form of the stock prices staged a brisk recovery , _______,
and, if anything, exhibited greater vitality in so doing than after past reactions. Industrials finished with gains of 2.83 points in the averages, rails gained 1.29 points and utilities 69-100 of a point. The market's behavior suggested that technical considerations more than outside developments supplied force for recent movements. Brokers’ loans for the week ended February 26. announced after the close, showed a decrease of $14,000,000 to S930.000.000.
The encouraging trend of corporate developments undoubtedly has been a factor bolstering sentiment. Following the National Lead plan to split its shares 10 for 1, which sent the stock soaring on Wednesday, another 38*-» points was added to its price yesterday. Anaconda directors helped the movement along with a 25 cent dividend distribution, the first in five years, and the stock responded with a 2\i, point gain.
Demand was evident from the outset and a broad, deliberate movement to higher levels occurred all along the line. Though the market paused early in the afternoon, there was no letdown in prices. Steel common came ansad strong near the end to finish 35* points higher. Chrysler gained 2 points, while Illinois Central, Kennecott, New York Central and Allied Chemical were among the issues to gain 2 points or more.
Utilities enjoyed vigorous buying, notably American Water Works where there was a technical pinch to make delivery against short sales effected by bond holders. The market appeared bare of offerings in many cases and the hesitancy displayed at times seemed due to the unwillingness of buyers to put the market up on themselves. Volume of trading increased about 300,000 shares over the preceding day to 2.310,000 shares.
HOLIDAY AFFECTS LOADINGS—
That the Washington’s Birthday holiday played an important part in the decreased car loadings which will be reported for the latest week is apparent from the experience of the Chicago. Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad. That road's loadings have been running at the rate of about 4,000 cars daily. Last Saturday— Washington’s Birthday—the road had no loadings. but the total on Monday of this week jumped to S.700 cars. Much of the loss in railroad traffic for the week of February 22, there-
lore, should be made up In this week's figures.
UTILITIES—
Utility stocks have been finding most active support as a group on the latest reaction. With power consumption widening the margin of gain over 1935 to 12.3% for the latest week, against average gains of less than 11% this year, and with many of the big systems keeping a firm grip on operating expenses, or lowering them further, the possibilities for purchases on strictly earnings prospects appear better than they have been in some time.
As long as the market as a whole persists in liberally capitalizing earnings prospects utilities, assuming political pressure is on the wane—and buyers are assuming this. TV A notwithstanding—have a good deal to recommend them. Electric Bond & Share and United Corp, common, both highly geared, are attracting a better brand of speculative buying, while Consolidated Gas and American Water Works are favorites among more conservative purchasers.
TAXES—
The ease with which stocks rallied yesterday morning lifted hopes of bulls who still believe an extended Spring rise is in prospect. At the	time the market's action has not com-
pletely removed doubts and probably will not until the averages scale the peaks made earlier this month. After the decline of the past week an automatic rally was to be expected. In the meantime, many in the Street are holding commitments light until they see what kind of a tax program is to be proposed. There have been hints lately that the proposals may be somewhat more severe than expected earlier.
INTERLAKE IRON—
It is understood the Mather interests have sold several hundred thousand shares of Interlake Iron stock to three of the leading invest-' ment trusts m Wall Street. The stock has been active and stronger lately.
Aside from the shift in ownership, which probably has attracted some interest to the shares, some people who have studied the situation believe the company’s business has taken a definite turn for the better. “	- -	-	.
the old By-Products Coke Co. gas sales have been the price structure been firmer.
Interlake Iron is Its coke and on the upgrade recently* and for coal tar products has
OILS—
The strength in of discounting Sprin
tius is con-against the
oil stocks is clearly a case _ g business. Gasoline stocks have accumulated recently due to bad weather which has restricted driving, but sidcred a minor development broader, strong statistical background in the oil industry. Strength in the California price situation has helped to revive interest in oils and has inspired buying based on the outlook for good first half earnings and a rapid acceleration in gasoline sales as driving weather approaches.
SOUTHWEST KAILS—
Southwest rails arc beginning to disclose seme of the sharp gains in income predicted for them months ago. Atchison yesterday reported net operating income for January totaling S480 000 against a deficit of $101,000 in the like month a year ago. Missouri Pacific earlier this week reported net operating income for
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.