World Markets: Chart Shows General Rise in Security Prices on LeadingExchangesCOMMODI By CLINTON R. HARROWER
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 16, 1936;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
Chart Shows General Rise In Se curity Prices on Leading • Exchanges
COMMODITIES A FACTOR
By Clinton R. Harrowix
Evidence that the rise in New York security prices, which has been under way for the past year, xs part of a world wide movement toward higher prices, is shown graphically in the annual statistical charts just issued by the Bank voor Handel en Scfaeepvaart N. V. in Rotterdam-Four out of the six markets charted confirmed the New York rise in the first days ©f October and the last quarter of the year brought a concerted rise.
Study of the annual charts over the past eight years reveals that in a major movement all of the six markets tend to move closely together. The only exception to the trend now is Berlin, which no longer can be counted a free international market because of the strict regulations governing mark exchange and the free movement of securities between Germany and foreign countries.
The Bank voor Handel en Scheepvaart has charted the course of the stock markets of New York. London, Paris, Amsterdam. Brussels and Berlin. In preparation of the indices upon which the charts are based, aiming to show the daily trend of each of the six markets, the bank has taken about 30 of the principal shares quoted on each, stock exchange. Taking the average price on January 3, April 3, July 2, October 1 and December 29 of la-4t year as basis of 100, the bank reduced daily* the price of each of these shares to an ind*x figure. In this manner it arrived at about 30 index figures for each stock exchange from which an arithmetic average was determined. These averages are adjusted for trading ‘’ex rights,** while adjustment has been made in the Landon, New York and Brussels figures to a gold basis.
Het Gain Shown for Year*
Although the Berlin market	Hs
peak in early July and declined from then to the end of the year, it still was able to show a net gain for the year. This made it possible for the first time in recent years for all six stock exchanges to close the year with a net gain. Even in 1928 the record was spoiled by a slight net loss by the Amsterdam index.
The following table of plus and minus signs shows the net annual trend for the indices of each stock exchange since 1928.
..	—	3935 1934 1933 1932 1931 1930 1929 1924
New York . .. -r	—	■—	—	__ ___ —	-r
London	—	4-	4-	—	_	—	4.
PA-rla .......	4-	—	—	__ ___ —	u-
Ary.»terdam ..	4-	—	•+•	*	—	_ —	_
Brustein ....4-	—	—	--	__ ___ _____ 4-
Berlin .... 4-	4-	—	—	—	—	—	-i-
With the exception of Berlin, which showed a completely independent movement, the chart for 1935 shows an upward movement for the other five exchanges, setting in approximately the middle of March. This about coincided with the growing realization that the period of experimentation with respect to the dollar had come to an end and that the dollar was actually stabilized in terms of gold.
Commodity Rise Dominating Factor
Probably one of the dominating factors in the nse m security* prices has been the beginnings of upward rise in commodity prices, which have been evident to a greater or less degree throughout the whole world in the last year and which have been confirmed also in recent months in the gold countries. This suggested the end of the deflation cycle in prices, which had been holding business, as well as security prices, back.
The Bank voor Handel en Scheepvart takes cognizance of effect of commodity prices upon security markets in the explanatory letter accompanying the charts. The letter states in part “The curves of the Stock Exchanges show that there has been no long hesitation in seeing in the more stable commodity quotations a reliable indication of approaching economic recovery*, and that those who were eager to grasp the favorable opportunity, did not think it advisable to wait for a critical analysis of ths grounds which had given rise to the greater demand for commodities.
"However, it would, in our ©pinion, be going too far to attribute the really disproportionate rise of the share quotations in respect of the more constant commodity quotations merely to the bulls on the stock exchange, who fear to come too late and overleap all obstacles.
Better Prices Are Cited
“Although not the case with all commodities, an encouraging factor may be seen in the better tendency of the prices of many products. Especially now that such a product as sugar has shown improvement—leaving out of account the many causes which have led to this result —it may be noted (as a symptom of a not unfavorable conjecture that important centers of population in the East, where sugar is still to a great extent regarded as a luxury, have entered the market as buyers at higher prices. It is self-evident that the improvement in commodity prices affords enhanced prospects for many enterprises in general, and even gives new hope of vitality for enterprises the continuance of which on a profitable basis bad become doubtful, and it creates no’ surprise that private capital seeking investment turns In such circumstances by preference to the stock market. This tendency to prefer stocks for investment, which receives special support from America where the exchanges are influenced by the expectation of credit-inflation—an expectation to "which most ©f the European stock exchanges did not appear to be insensible—increases the rapid tempo of the rises.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.