Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 28, 1936; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 19
Abreast of
the Market
HOW THEY 8TAND—
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those of the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations with the previous declarations, follow:
SY ROBERT LAFFAX
Stocks were pressed for sale again starting the new week. There was nothing particularly tangible in the outside news developments to account for weakness, selling seeming to spring from the market’s unimpressive rallying effort. More of the thinness so evident in specialties last week seemed to crop out in leaders and as a result 30 industrial stocks used in the Dow-J ones index broke resistance levels of recent months. dropping 4.88 points to 147.05. Rails
Increased earnings:
Industrials ....
Rafis ..........
Utilities .......
Decreased earnings:
Industrials ..... Rails ..........
Utilities .......
Dividends:
Unchanged ....
Increased ......
Reduced .........
Initial ........
Resumed ........
Accumulated ... Omitted ........
Extra ...........
Since April 1 ..	253
..	43
..	90
..	104
..	19
..	25
..	306
.. 10
4
5
35
24
Additions yesterday 22 3 8
5 1
3
9
*2
lost 1.92 points finishing at a new low for the move at 43.01. Utilities dropped 1.19 points to 29.61.
The market was dull at the outset and somewhat irregular. Chrysler firmed a little but Steel common continued under pressure. Brices shortly began to show losses that appeared out of proportion to the amount of offerings, reflecting absence of strong buying interest, and before long selling activities had gathered headway. By the afternoon the tape was running five minutes behind floor -transactions with lower levels prevailing on the floor.
Losses for leading issues like Westinghouse Electric, Youngstown Sheet & Tube, Union Carbide. U. S. Rubber, International Harvester. Douglas Aircraft, Delaware & Hudson, Chrysler and Atchison approximated 4 points while a number of other issues were down more than
2 to about 3 points.
Grains broke sharply. Wheat was off sharply in the early trading on rain in Kansas. Chicago wheat closed off as much as 4 cents a bushel and at Kansas City the market was off the limit.
BONDS SHARPLY LOWER—
Some rather heavy losses occurred in sections of the bond market yesterday, particularly in convertible issues or bonds with warrants. Studebaker and Walworth bonds were extreme cases, losing 11 and 8U points respectively. Pure Oil, Philadelphia Reading Coal & Iron and moderate priced rails lost two to four points. Amusement company bonds were weak, Paramount and Warner Bros, particularly. In all, 53 bonds made new lows yesterday.
• • •
FOREIGN DEMAND HOLDS—
Once again it seemed apparent that selling was of domestic origin. Most of the houses with active foreign connections reported they were slight buyers on balance for foreigners, or that buy and sell orders tended to even up. London has maintained a constructive outlook on our stocks throughout the past week, and its own stock market has been rising somewhat.
THINNESS—
The suddenness of attack on the market yesterday caught most brokers by surprise, for they came downtown reasonably hopeful, believing that the market had withstood last week’s nervousness and liquidation in fair style.
Hopefulness was quickly dispelled, however. After the quiet opening, leading stocks started to fade to new lows on very little volume. The acute weakness in grains was unsettling and few could derive much cheer from the fact that early volume was light. For it was only too apparent that the small volume was due to the fact that sellers were having difficulty getting stocks off, bids were so thin in many cases. By noon the Dow-Jones industrial average had
dropped to 149.31. under low levels of recent months, and though under the Dow theory a bearish signal would not be given until the market closed decisively under the 149.SI level, liquidation picked up considerable volume on the up-to-noon performance.
STEEL^—
Business news continued favorable, but the market was in no mood to respond to it. Steel
activity for tbe current week, for instance, was estimated at 71.2% of capacity by the American Iron & Steel Institute, a gain of 8-10 of a point over the preceding week. This carried the steel operating level to a new high for the recovery and to the best levels in nearly six years. In the past month steel operations have been lifted nearly 10 points from 62%.
* • •
IT. S. RUBBER—
Action of U. S. Rubber common has been particularly interesting. During last week's general declines this stock was a conspicuous strong spot, a good deal of buying taking place Ln the midst of softer spells elsewhere in the market.
After encountering a good deal of buying in the 30-32 range a week ago. tbe stock early yesterday broke its 30 level before the rest of the market had definitely turned down. This turned many of the chartists bearish on the issue, for it was reasoned that there had been no opportunity for last week’s buyers to get out of their commitment profitably.
1920 MARKET—
The current market action is being likened in several quarters to that of 1924-1926. There is a deadly parallel in the Dow-Jones industrial averages between that market action and this. In both cases the upturn started from about 85 and moved up to about the 160 level, rising perpendicularly for approximately a year. Early in 1926 the industrials reacted to 135.
The two periods, of course, are very dissimilar. Money started to tighten in 1926 and it is still plentiful and cheap now. However, none of the budgetary and socialistic problems now confronting investors were present then. The main trouble with the present market is that too many big holders of stocks cannot tell clearly whether they arc holding them on the expectation of sound recovery or radical inflation. They seem to vary their ideas from time to tune. It would seem that you cannot have both types of recovery for one is antipathetic to the other.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.