Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 10, 1936;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 16
Abreast of
Market Diary
BY R0BEKT LAFFAX
Stocks were heavy early yesterday, . _______,
steadied through the middle of the day. In the last hour selling picked up materially and the movement gained headway toward the close, industrial stocks used in the Dow-Jones averages finally losing 4.36 points, rails 1.75 points and utilities 82-100 of a point. Volume for the day totaled 2,750,000 shares.
The strength in copper shares Saturday, on war prospects, was displaced by weakness. Aircraft stocks, after further attempts on the upside, turned down. Foreign curranriea were weak against the dollar in the morning- but they recovered some later.
Chrysler, United States Steel common, General Motors and other pivotal leaders were hard hit in the selling.
ranged from 2 to more than. 4 points, oils, utilities and	• - -	-
heavy pressure.
Commodity markets, after their spurt last Saturday, lost ground during the day. Bonds also were heavy.
but they
Losses for Industrial leaders _	Rails,
specialties also were under
MARKET DIFFICULTIES-------
Specialists in United States Steel common and Chrysler had difficulty late in the day in executing orders. Selling came in with such a rush that trading in these two issues was suspended momentarily. This difficulty was soon overcome, but at severe concessions in price.
Much of the late Belling was reported to have come from Florida.
STEEL—
Increasing automobile production schedules are beginning to be felt in the steel trade. Sus-
Siock Exchange bid anti asked prices* ------------------------Page H.
the Market
talned for a long time largely on the strength of railroad and structural steel demands, the industry’s operations for the outset of this week Jumped 2.3 points to 55.3% of capacity, the best level, excepting one week, since June, 1934.
If the industry can adjust its price situation and get its house in order it may mean something In the way of profits for the Spring months. But when operations get around the 50% level and a little higher	ig a strong
temptation to keep pounding away for more volume for it is through volume that steel profits are made. The constant overhead of huge plants is an incentive to price cutting and big steel buyers are aware of this. Some of the big auto buyers have been observing the increasing steel construction and modernization in the sheet and atrip division of the industry and apparently have correctly gauged the competitive situation. The steel industry is attempting to seek a little more cooperation, but like the league of Nations manifold and out from time
loose ends are to time.
Its problems are Inclined to crop
been holding
up fairly well of market weak-
OILS—
Oils have been holding through the past two sessions _____________
nesa. The large increase in gasoline stocks in February, and uncertainty over the question of how large the Rodessa pool may prove have tempered some of the recent enthusiasm, but there is a strong belief that with better weather the oils will be in a position to respond to usual Spring business provided the genera* stock market offers any encouragement.
Meanwhile, the 1935 earnings statements are Justifying some of last year’s optimism Consolidated had a particularly good report, with net income of $11,300,000 against $553.000 in 1934. Phillips Petroleum is expected to turn in a good statement. Per share estimates run up to around $3.25 for 1935.
MOTOR COMPETITION______
Something new may face motor manufacturers this Summer and it is of interest from the standpoint of gasoline consumption as well. With 2 cent a mile passenger fares scheduled to go into effect over a wider area in June it will be interesting to see if railroads, long sufferers from a revenue standpoint from motor competition, can inflict any loss on motor makers and gasoline salesmen.
Some of the big companies, accustomed to send salesmen out on the road in cars, it is argued, may decide that 2 cent a mile railroad accommodations are more attractive than 6 cent a mile automobile transportation The relative cheapness of railroad transportation may induce some private individuals to lay up their cars more frequently. Another point in this connection is the comfort of air conditioned
FOREIGN OPERATIONS—
European participation in the stock market here yesterday was moderate, but while there may have been a little selling on balance there was, and has not been, any indication yet of a widespread change of heart respecting* our securities. Over the past week or so there ha* been some lightening up on bulges but a well sustained demand has continued, with switching still accounting for the greater part of the activity.	,
TOBACCO—
Tobacco stocks have the past week. The American, Liggett & Lorillard are still some their dividends, the four _	_
operations alone and making no allowance for non-recurring income, showing a deficit of $9,500,000 for 1935 after payment of common dividends.
The tobacco companies have been selling largely on their yield and there has been little speculative attraction in them. An official of Liggett & Myers, at the company’s annual meeting yesterday, said there are more uncertainties in the situation this year than last, and declared the ending of the NRA did not bring about any reduction in costs.
been acting; badly for big four companies. Myers, Reynolds and distance from earning companies, based upon
HOW THEY STAND—
Number of earnings reports of leading companies. compared with those of the corresponding period a year previous, and declarations with the previous follow:
of dividend declarations.
Increased earnings:
Industrials .....
Rails ...........
Utilities .......
Decreased earnings:
Industrials .....
Rails ...........
Utilities .......
Dividends:
Unchanged .......
Increased .......
Reduced .........
Initial .........
Resumed .........
Accumulated , * Omitted .........
Extra ...........
Since
Mar. 1 .	85
.	17
. 18
Additions yesterday 22 5
2
46
5
6
10
3
186
9
19
2
3
6
16
12
1
1
2
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.