Security Markets Of World Suffer General Declines: Weakness Shown in ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 30, 1936;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 1	• -nr 1
Security Markets
Of World Suffer
General Declines
Weakness Shown in London And Paris, While Losses Here Are Extended
Gold Shares Rise in New York
New York's decline in securities prices yesterday broadened to Include leading international markets.
Extreme weakness developed in an active market on the Paris Bourse, with French rente* and shares of the Bank of France heading the downturn.
Even London, which up to Tuesday had remained largely unaffected by developments elsewhere, joined the decline.
Amsterdam reported severe pressure on quotations there with Royal Dutch dropping < points and sugars, rubbers, tobaccos, -industrials, and "Americans” ali joining the decline. Similar reports were heard from Brussels and stock exchanges in Switzerland.
New York showed no ability to rally from the steady weakness of this month and shares slumped further, with the exception of gold shares which displayed marked strength.
Devaluation Talk Stressed
. Casual commentators pointed to expected devaluation of the French franc as the cause for the declines here and abroad. But informed opinion leaned to the belief that world stock markets are reflecting fears that world economic recovery cannot go much further unless leading countries cut through the present tangle of political and financial problems. International opinion, too, has been made nervous by the continued heavy declines in the New York market.
Belief that outlook for continued political instability was the motivating factor rather than devaluation was confirmed by all stock and foreign exchange markets except gold shares in New York. These advanced sharply on the theory that a devaluation of the franc would bring a currency depreciation race which would lead to further devaluation of the dollar and consequent rise in the price of gold.
In the London market, however, gold shares
Please turn to Page 9, Column 3
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
World Markets Down
--------(Continued from First Page)----------1 followed the general downward trend of the market, even though the sterling price for gold might reasonably be expected to be affected by such a movement.
The behavior of the Paris Bourse indicated fear of political instability rather than devaluation. The break in shares of the Bank of France and of the Credit Froncier was attributed directly in nationalization of those institutions.
International Shares Decline
International shares have always been one of the first havens to which the French investors have turned during a devaluation scare. Even these declined in Paris while common stocks should advance on devaluation talk, but declined instead. The same distaste for internationals was shown in the break in Royal Dutch in Amsterdam, although the Dutch guilder, it is felt, would certainly be affected promptly by French defection from gold.
In the foreign exchange markets, Swiss francs were a feature yesterday with a wide break. Some attributed this to fear of devaluation of the French franc but wall informed quarters here Indicated a strong Swiss demand for sterling because of the Central European situation. The London correspondent of The Wall Street Journal cabled that Italy was acquiring sterling balances by selling Swiss francs. The Swiss buying of sterling brought a firm tone to sterling in New’ York.
There is no abnormal demand for gold In the London market as attested by the continuance of only a moderate premium in the London gold price over the sterling-franc rate. On the previous occasions when the france has been in question, a very high premium has resulted almost immediately.
It now appears probable that the expected movement of gold from the London market to New York Is developing. The dollar equivalent of the London gold price yesterday was sufficiently low to permit purchase of gold in the London open market for sale in New’ York. A total' of $366,000 of metal was taken for shipment which makes a total of $1,200,000 London open market gold en route to Now York In ad-diton to the $18,200,000 gold taken from France. First consignment of thia is due in New York today.
French Francs Steady Here
French francs were steady and quiet in the local exchange market yesterday at levels Slightly above the point at which exports of gold can be made from Paris to New York. The Paris correspondent of The Wall Street Journal reported that small engagements had been made, obviously in connection with exchange dealings abroad before the New York opening, but official confirmation in New York has not yet been received.
The discouragement is believed to be focussed largely upon the French political situation. Recognizing that the French government for three past months has been at best a stop-gap affair until the French elections, it had been hoped that a new Chamber of Deputies would be elected at this time which would give some promise of ability for orderly government in France and thus give impetus to the sigs of economic betterment in that country for the last few months.
While nothing definite is known yet, preliminary indications now are for a Left government composed largely of Communists, Socialists and Radical Socialists. Despite the existence of the working agreement between these three there is nothing on which to base the expectation that such a government can last or that those parties can cooperate together effectively to bring about the reforms which France needs. Without firm and sound government in France general European confusion is likely to continue.
The European situation was further complicated yesterday by reported Austrian troop movements in the Salzburg and Tyrol districts, obviously in connection with concentration of German troops olr the Austrian frontier which have been reported from time to time recently. However, official Vienna was qtfick to deny that any exceptional Austrian troop movemnts'were taking place. According to the United Press, a government spokesman stated that troops had been moved in course of normal training and to strengthen garrisons of some cities as a safeguard of internal security.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.