Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 24, 1936; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
Market Diary
By Robert
Thursday’s stock market erftountered rough going. From the cutset an unfavorable impression was created when the market displayed no inclination to extend Wednesday’s rally. Steel common slipped off to a new low for the move on a few hundred share turnover and bids were scarce for "Western Union, necessitating a printed bid and asked quotation on the tape. Heaviness soon affected the rails which slipped into new low ground for the move.
The actual volume of selling was limited through most of the morning, but after mid-day continuous offerings began to hammer away at price levels until representative stocks showed declines of 2 to 4 points on the day. The day’s volume amounted to 2,060,000 shares, against the 1,200,000-share turnover of the preceding day.
Declines carried the Dow-Jones railroad average to a new low at 44.80, a loss of 1.82 points. Industrials lost 3.84 points, falling below the lows made earlier this week to 151.08, or close to the 149-150 low point set up earlier this year. The latter is a critical level to adherents of the Dow theory, for violation of that area would, in view of the already unfavorable action of the rails, suggest a downtrend of intermediate duration.
Prices improved a little before Che close after experiencing their worst phase of the day in the late afternoon, when the tape fell 10
minutes behind floor transactions. As pressure lightened and the tape caught up, the price level moved up moderately.
Bond prices were softer and commodities weakened.	•	•	•
MARGINS—
A variety of reasons were offered for the market’s behavior yesterday, some old and some new. In a general way, the financial district has been growing increasingly nervous as the French elections approach. The scheduled speech of President Roosevelt in New York, Saturday, is being regarded with a little concern, In view of the tone of the Baltimore address. In addition, there has been tbe poor behavior of the market itself.
The only new development causing uneasiness was the intimation that the Federal Reserve Board may let its rules on bank loans to brokers work out in such a way that brokers will be forced to send out margin calls or sell out customers as stock prices decline. The new rules, scheduled to go into effect on May 1, would work increasing hardship on margin customers who up to now have been permitted to see their stocks decline somewhat without Being- forced to put up more margin and maintain the original percentage of cash against their commitment. It is understood the New York Stock Exchange was concerned over this situation, and that there were some active discussions on this point yesterday.
• • •
FOREIGN SELLING—
Foreign traders, after maintaining a constructive attitude toward our stock market through the tribulations earlier in the week, finally succumbed and were sellers on balance yesterday. Faris was quite a seller from midday on. On the whole, the offerings were not any heavier or out of proportion to the volume transacted here and there still seems reason to believe that most of the pessimism is of domestic origin, with the average foreign a little more optimistic on our outlook than we are.
• • •
STEELS—
Steels have been under pressure recently for much the same reason that motor accessory stocks were sold earlier this month. The general realization that, despite higher volume, profits are not measuring up to last year’s level has come as something of a shock. This is true although the Street should have been prepared for it in view of the widespread reports of price cutting in the first quarter.
Inland Steel’s position is a striking example
of the steel situation. Although operations arc at practical capacity, higher than at any time in six years, actual earnings, according
to reports from Chicago, are not measuring up to last year’s level. This is true not only of the first quarter period, but of conditions so far in the second quarter. The price situation has been improved this quarter, but the company’s average selling prices are still well under a year ago. The latter situation is something of a surprise, for it was generally supposed that current profit margins had been improved materially.
« • •
CERTAIN-TEED PRODUCTS—
Following the uninspiring first quarter statement of Johns Manville, another representative of the building material industry, Certam-teed Products has issued a statement reflecting increased raw material costs and competitive conditions on the selling product. The company reported a net loss of $276,967 for the period, against a net loss of $132,349 in the first quarter a year ago. The stock weakened on this statement.
It is understood that the price situation in the building material industry has improved somewhat since the first quarter.
OTIS ELEVATOR—
Otis Elevator’s first quarter report offered a pleasing contrast to the general run of earnings reports coming from the construction field. Of course, Otis is in a distinctly different department of the construction industry than are Johns Manville and Certain-teed Pirducts and it had its own experience with unprofitable business last year. The last of its unprofitable contracts are said to have been u orked off the books and the elevator business is now on a better pnee basis.
A balance of 16 cents for the common was earned in the first quarter, against S2 cents a share on the preferred in the same period a year ago.
• • •
THINNESS—
Spreads between bid and asked prices are developing with more frequency and the ficker has been compelled several times recently to print quotations m an effort to get buyer and seller together. The thinness has developed both ways. On Wednesday some short apparently was reaching for American Can to cover and he had trouble getting an accommodating seller. Yesterday the position was reversed and quotations on that stock appeared on the way down. In addition, Union Pacific and Western Union had to be quoted on the tape to arrange a sale.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.