Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 22, 1936;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Laffax
BY ROBFBT
attack since u<rd in the pninrs. rails Volume share'' and minutes behind floor
Stocks suffered the worst celling April 27 yesterday, industrials Dow-Jones averages losing 4.7^ 1.79 points and utilities 1.03 point.'*, of trading increased to 1,4S0 000 the tape lagged a tew ’	*
transactions late in the afternoon.
Selling on an active scale starred about half an hour artrr thr opening. Thrc was no news To account tor it nnd brokers had no explanations for the weakness until later in the day when rumors were flying thick and fast concerning thr foreign situation. There was some talk to the effect that now that .he Olympic games were over. Germany was preparing to move on Panzig, but al! the conjectures appeared to lack tangible support m the news Moreover, foreign markets were quiet which seemed to belie the impression that new trouble was brewing over there.
Meanwhile, selling continued to come into the list, sporadically sending leading issues to successive new lows. Minor rallies orcurred between spells of liquidation, hut it was evident that the market lacked some or its one-time support. This brought in renewca offerings in the last hour. Case lost more than 10 points and other farm equipment issues were driven down. Allied Chemical lost a similar amount and Westinghouse Klectnc was anothei weak leader in the blue chip category Motors were among the most actively sold. Chrysler General Motors fading steadily under the sistent offerings.
Atchison's heaviness continued to stand among rails, as it ha* for several days, but time there was ample in other carrier issues
Bonds weakened but commodities fairly steady performance
R<t4n*on ScbU Grn Cir*r pr. Jnnea£L«a ’
-
New lx>wi
____ pf. Dept Str.
and per-
out this evidence of liquidation
ave
market abroad made a
NO FOREIGN PRESSURE—
The squal1 that descended upon the early yesterday did not come from Several houses and one investment trust
check-up and found there were very fev. offerings for foreign account, and certainly no volume that could account for the weakness here The nature of the headlines describing Spanish developments caused some nervousness here but they did not appear to have any connection with the selling.
THINNESS—
Several of the day to day traders wore inclined to try the huving side until they realised that the usual investment support on dips appeared to be absent It was the first time in a good while that offerings m fair volume followed up the initial weakness and that additional stock was thrown on the market at the lower levels This quickly weakened the courage of traders trying for a
A number what it market, traders.
cialists against prices until more buyers came along Brokers have been complaining about the way specialists have been encouraged to forego their function of providing an orderly market.
turn on the upside demonstrations of trading in a thin were presented to
of excellent means* to attempt highly regulated. Once more it became apparent that spe-wcrc more inclined to match buyers seller;* rathci than attempt to support
ELECTIONS----
While the elections arc still 10 weeks off, it is evident that they have become a definite market factor and this may have more to do with the market’s weakness than is apparent. The
investor nr even intermediate swin, chances of ge getting out ag<nn is not a long time tainly not when around the high*?
the trader operating tor the ig would have to consider his .mg into the market and possibly on short notice and 10 weeks under the circumstances. Cer-purchases are being made for the year. On perhaps there may be more of an to attempt purchases
The action of utilities for several suggested that political doubts were to creep into the stock market picture tion has been called of buyers to follow : shares and this group has been subjected to distribution during all strong spells in rails and special industrials.
& setback, inclination
weeks has beginning Atten-I to the persistent refusal up advances in the power this group has
MOTOR PRODVCTION REBOUNDS—
Automobile production has bounded forward again this week both automotive statistical services recording an increase ir. output. Resumption of activity at the Ford plant after a week’s shut-down is responsible for the gain. Ford originally intended to shut dox'.'n for two weeks
There msv be sporadic movements in motor production figures for a while as various production schedules are brought into line for changeovers to new models, but followers of the automobile situation believe the broad trend may bo down for a little while further.
BANK LENDING—
Increase of §15 CKJO.OOO in “other loans’” or New York City Danka in the week ended August 19 follows a gain of SS3.000.000 in such loans by banks in 101 leading cities in the previous fortnight Loans appear to have been distributed fairly well among all institutions number of industries There to believe that a number of now reached the point where receivables arc tying up all
and to cover a is some reason companies nave inventories and ready cash and tnat any further gain in business will necessitate borrowing—which would bo a good thing from the standpoint of the banks.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.