Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 23, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
	Since	Additions
Increased Esrnlngss:	Nov. 1	Monday
Industrials -			...	119	4
Rails		... 12	
Utilities 		...	47	4
Deceased Earnings:		
Industrials 			... 66	2
Rails		...	32	
Utilities 		...	27	S
BY ROBEET Stocks yesterday lost shown toward the close	_	~
They opened lower in response to weakness in markets abroad and after a good deal of backing and filling they dropped sharply towards the dose, carrying numerous issues to new low ground. Industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages finished at 114.19, off 6.26 points. Rails were down 1.51 points at 29.55 and utilities lost 69-100.
There were some weak openings as some ox the encouraging developments that had been rumored in Saturday's late session failed to materialize. Chrysler was down sharply and Steel common was easier. Sears-Roebuck was a weak feature throughout and the oil issues gave way. Standard Oil of New Jersey, and Texas Corp, losing 2 and 2% points, respectively. International Harvester was an example of one of the more volatile losses, that issue dropping 7 Hi points. Johns Manville was off du Font 5, and Allied Chemical 9 points.
Rails and utilities offered some resistance for a time but they finally gave way with the rest of the list. North American. American Water Works and Electric Power & Light kept pushing forward during quiet spells in the gen- ( oral market, finding support as a result of their encouraging action toward the close of the preceding week. But this move proved short lived, as did the mild bulge that occurred . in steels after news of lower steel operations for the week appeared.
Commodities were easier sagged further.
Laffax all of the of Saturday’s session.
enthusiasm
a long way in a
has proceeded Fashions change’ quickly in the
and bond prices
FOLLOWING THE TAPE—
Wall Street is following closely these days and aince rection every few hours sentiment of traders keeps shifting with the market. That much of the buying and selling is superficial goes without saying but it is so difficult to obtain a firm hold on fundamentals, or to segregate what 1s fundamental from what is artificial, that many have given up trying.
Those who cling to the viewpoint that Washington may yet “do something” to rescue business from its present slump admit that normally nothing should be expected from that quar-■ter that could be capable of changing basic business tendencies. However, they feel these are not normal times and that there is nothing normal in the way business confidence and business statistics have folded up since the ■slimmer.
the tape action prices change di-
market traders short time.	.	.	_	.
business and financial world and if the example is set the movement can turn in the opposite direction quickly enough.
While it may be true that it is usually bad policy to “buck the trend” and buy stocks in a bear market this doctrine seems to have been taken quite literally in the current instance. Yet someone has always had to take that chance in the p»*t or markets would have gone in one direction forever. While the business news may not have provided any reason for anticipating a change in trend as yet, the speed with which deflation has proceeded offers some hope that a long drawn out decline is not to be anticipated.
• • •
LONDON MARKET----------
Wall Street has become acutely conscious of London’s latest weakness, the action of the London Financial Times railroad share index in moving to a new low yesterday attracting a great deal of interest. This marked the first time that the behavior of the London market could be termed under the Dow theory a bear market, for rails have been holding up rather well and until yesterday they refused to confirm . the downtrend in industrials.
Once again conditions have gotten into a vicious circle where liquidation in one market touches off liquidation in another. London and New York have been following each other’s movements closely, support points
_ both penetrating critical around the same time.
BUSINESS POLICIES—
It is not essential that the Administration produce anything sensational. A mere demonstration (as distinguished from a promise) that business is to be assisted through tax relief and through a more two-sided policy with respect to labor might help a great deal. At this stage of the game when steel activity is down to slightly better than 30% of capacity and when it has become the rule to hold up new orders otth allow inventories to run down, a little definite stimulation might go a long way. Certainly liquidation by big business and big stock
UTILITIES—
Behavior of to puzzle tape been showing _	_
strength and some of them have held their gains of recent weeks rather well. Some brokers have been T’orom manning switching into these shares, but it is difficult to see how they can be considered cheaper than the market as a whole despite their comparatively more attractive eell-ing ratio to earnings. Utilities are intimately tied up with the current business situation and with power consumption threatening to decline under a year ago this would appear to be most important, particularly since their earnings are highly geared to fluctuations in gross. In one respect, however, they are favored for they enjoy fixed rates at a time when industry generally must make downward adjustments in its selling prices.
the utilities recently has helped observers for these issues have a good deal of independent
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.