Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 23, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 17
Market Diarj»
Call SMoey twwwJ ....... Time mtney, 90 «l*3ra.. .... Acceptances* 90 days ...... Commercial paper ........ graces, otHm ............ Itterttnr. eables ........... New Yer* bank rate ...... Reserve System ratio ...... Copper, domestic ......... Leait New York .............
Silver. New York.........
Steel scrap (Pitt*. No. 1)-. Zine, Bast BL Loots ......
Fuiiuest
Cotree* Rio, May ......... Corn. May ............... Cotton, May .............. Hides, June .............. Oats, May ............... Robber. May ............. Silk, raw. May..............
Sapar. raw (Coat. 3) May Tin (Standard) May..........
Wheat. May .............. Wool tops, May ..........
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—
^Tondny* on tlie New York Stock Exchange, four stocks made new highs and 23 stocks made new lows for the year 1936-37.
New Highs—-Coes Goal ct. Cans Coat pf ct
HOW THEY STAND—
Increased Earnings: Industrials 							Since March 1 ...I	238	Additions yesterday 18
Rails 		....	24	
Utilities		....	47	
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 				....	76	3
Ralls 		.. . . 26	1
Utilities 		....	9	
XT B Hoffman
XT B HoSm pf
Br Robert laffan
Disappointment over the lack of progress over the week-end in the labor negotiations in Detroit caused more nervous selling in stocks Monday and again the withdrawal of bids helped to accentuate the losses. The turnover topped two million shares by only a small margin yet losses running up to 3 and 5 points were liberally distributed throughout the list.
The industrial averages fell 4.22 points, rails dropped 2.40 points and utilities 87-100. Commodity markets held reasonably firm but bonds sagged further.
The opening in stocks was lower. Chrysler's late run-up on Saturday on rumors that a settlement to the strike might be effected before Monday left the stock vulnerable as the deadlock continued. A. weak opening in this issue was followed by additional losses which carried the stock 5% points lower on the day.
General Motors met slighty better support and receded less than some of the other industrials in a similar price range. Rails, however, lost their stamina of the week before and dropped about as sharply as any. New York Central gave up more than 3 points and so did I Stock Exchange bid and asked Prices. ■
—Page 14~	I
New Lows—
Calif Psek pf. CraneCo *7% pf Oavaos cv pt Detroit BOison.
KalaniMoo 8tv Kelsey HayesA Kelsey MayeaB Nat Bd A Imr NYC Omni bos Pae Finance. Pnn-Am PAT. Pub Ser NJHnf
Sloss SheCT pfd Spany Chalf pf Suh OU .........
Taleott .......
TB'tnpsot! Prod Walyreea .... Tunc Sp A W
year. Machine tool makers would not be surprised to see some slackening. While the high cost of labor would seem to invite increased demand for labor saving machinery, this is true only up to a certain point. Recently the labor situation has tended to discourage some capital expenditures.
...
MEN AND MACHINES—
Perhaps industry has begun to wonder whether there is any point in spending money for new labor saving machinery when strong labor organizations in some instances will not permit the maximum use of present efficiency. It should be noted, for instance, that auto workers have been protesting against the speed-up system. Chrysler workers put this complaint in their letter to Governor Murphy last week. In fact, some private investigations into the labor situation in the Detroit area Just before the recent trouble broke out uncovered the fact that there was a definite move on the part of labor to set the output per day and to adhere to that schedule regardless ot management’s feeling in the matter. The whole move, of course, is designed to require greater man-power on the Job.
Quite apart from whether one is a liberal or conservative in regard to this subject of the speed-up system, it is important from a strictly stock market standpoint to recognize some loss of efficiency and profit, the amount depending upon the strength of the labor organization and its moderation In demands.
Southern Railway and Southern Pacific. Anaconda and Kennecott were down 3% and 2% respectively. Mail order issues, communications and most of the recent favorite specialties all suffered.
... '
MACHINE TOOLS—
Machine tool makers are anticipating some government orders shortly. The government has not been replacing tools in recent years on a scale sufficient to offset obsolescence of its general equipment and some new business is expected shortly, assuming no budget economies threaten. The trouble is that when economies start they affect the standard branches of government as well as the relief and emergency departments. In fact, it has been contended that much needed equipment has had to go by the boards in recent years while many government relief and recovery agencies were pouring out billions.
Demands from industry for machine tools Is no*, expected to maintain the pace set around the end ot last year and the beginning of this
STEEL WAGES—
News that Jones & Laughlin Steel workers were demanding 56 a day for common labor against the present $5 rate helped to depress steel stocks at a time when they were finding difficulty meeting effective support. This demand by 13,000 workers at the Aliquippa Works of that company comes on the heels of a boost on March 16.
The 40 hour week and time and one-half for overtime are reported to be tbe basis for present dissatisfaction. Workers claim their weekly Income is less, and with the higher cost of living the pressure on their real purchasing power is felt. The management has sided in with the men against the shorter working week but points out that the government has demanded it. -
• • •
FOREIGN MARKETS—
While the London stock market was fairly Bteady yesterday, there was acute weakness in
Amsterdam and Paris. Brokers here report that demand for American shares, which was brisk up to the early part of this month, has dropped off. For some weeks the foreign buying h.. acted as a prop for prices here, offsetting the general tendency for officials of corporations here to dispose of some of their holdings.
In foreign exchange circles here, the French situation is being watched with unusual interest. Despite all the talk of the success of the new loans, indications do not seem to support the opinion that confidence has shown .ny marked improvement. It Is pointed out, for instance, that the 4%% Treasury bonds of 1934 on the Paris Bourse have dropped to 96 despite the fact* that the semi-annual coupon is now payable and the bonds themselves are redeemable next October at par. This gives them a yield at the rate of. 12% per annum and with the close maturity there is certainly no evidence here of strong confidence.
TAX SELLING-----	.
The possibility that some tax selling may come into the market this year is considered important in some quarters. Under the present capital gains tax, purchases made in 1932 would be exempt from taxes up to 60% of the total holdings. It would seem attractive, therefore, for large scale holders to clinch these profits while they have them particularly since the only thing that can be gained by holding for another five years is another 10% margin. Taxes are levied on 40% of profits on shares held for five years and on 30% over 10 years. Since a good deal of accumulation took place in 1932 to 1934, much of the profits may be taken in 1937 to 1939.	’
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.