Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 8, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 19
Market Diary
CUT1 money renewal ....... Time money. PO day*...... Acoertanrn, »o day* ...... Coauneraisl paper ......... Francs, cable* ..............
S terUn*, cable* . ......... New York bank rate ...... Reserve System ratio ..... Copper, domestic ......... Lead, New Tori; ...........
Silver. New York .............
Steel scrap (Pitt*. No. 1) . . Zinc, East St. loot*...........
Vutures:
Coffee. IMo, May ........
Corn, May..........
Cotton. May ..............
Hide*. June ..............
Oats. May .............
Rubber. May ................
Silk, raw. May .............
So*ar. raw (Cont. 3) May.
Tin (Standard) May ...... Wtieat. May ..................
Wool top*. May...........
«.RS ISSVi 14.07 17.48
&0J4
Z4.&5 1.96^
69 20 141M1 110.0
1.80 48.00
By Robert laffax
Wednesday’s stock market was subjected to the most severe shake-out witnessed in a single day’s trading since July, 1934. Many factors played a part in bringing to a head a movement that had been threatening for some time. hThere was nervousness in markets abroad and failure of the Chrysler strike settlement to bring a favorable response in prices caused a concentration in selling orders that had been held up through the protracted labor negotiations of recent weeks. Weakness, consequently, became Intensified as the session progressed and It spread unit? drastic setbacks in a wide Tange of commodities developed in the late afterToon. Sharp tosses occurred in coffee, cotton, rubber and grains. Export copper was weak
HOW TWH'-V STA2ST>—	Since	A-dditioos
Increased Earnings	April 1	yesterday
Industrials 			..	72	7
Rails				... -	9	1
Utilities 		.. 20	2
a	•	•	
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 		.. 10	
Rails 	„	.. 1	*1 .
Utilities 		.. 8	
throughout the day and lead and zinc prices were reduced.
A lower opening in the face of the overnight Chrysler settlement betrayed the market's technical weakness and showed plainly that the labor news was not sufficient to stem the reaction that was in the making. Brokers reported that they had some initial selling orders from clients who evidently had been waiting for this news to facilitate liquidation.
Additional selling appeared In the second hour, concentrated in coppers, rubbers, motors, steels and other international favorites, There were reports in the financial district that British speculators had anticipated settlement of the Detroit labor troubles and bought stocks of all deceptions recently, offering them for sale here on the assumption that they might catch a bulge in prices. This might have accentuated the weakness.
Volume of trading totaled 2,290,000 shares and industrials lost 4.91 points, rails 1.82 points and utilities 63-100. Bond prices receded with stocks.
* e •	•
DEFLATING WAR—
It would be stretching a point to attribute
weakness in the markets to rumors that the gold price might be changed. True, London showed some nervousness on this account but the fact is that copper abroad has been weak for days and the market has shown little inclination to respond lately to strength in copper In this country. If rumors concerning a change in gold policy were primarily responsible for the market upsets the latter should have rallied on the official denials. Instead, more acute weakness developed in our markets in the last hour of trading.
A curious but nevertheless Important consideration has been the way war talk has suddenly subsided and been replaced by peace overtures. There is the move of Great Britain, France and Belgium to study lowering of trade barriers, the international .sugar conference and the recent visit of Premier Mackenzie King of Canada to Washington. All these things, together wth President Roosevelt's announced intention of withdrawing government orders for steel, copper and cement have caused a reorientation in the speculative outlook. Of course, peace, international cooperation and withdrawal of government spending on uneconomic works projects are all tremendously encouraging developments, if they materialize. But when speculative markets have been pushed ahead with few pauses for months on end, assisted in a large measure by talk of war preparations, government spending and other artificial trade considerations, there Is bound to be a reaction as some of this frothy speculation is liquidated.
• • *
TURNING TO THE RIGHT—
It may be jumping to conclusions to assume that because statesmen in many parts of the world have grown worried over economic and political paths that have been followed recently, and have lately been manifesting renewed interest in first principles of finance, that this necessarily marks a departure in world recovery and a definite BWing to the right. It is
nevertheless, something that the speculator ano investor is tremendously interested in. These straws in the political winds, moreover, have appeared at a time when many of our big institutions have been frankly puzzled over whether to pursue heavier bond or stock purchases from this point on.
Th > confusing part of it is that many of the European countries are so heavily committed to war preparations, handling their relief problems through armament manufacture, that it is difficult to see how an abrupt switch could be made without upsetting their economy. If men were taken off ^armament projects it would release them presumably for more intensive cultivation of world trade. The country with the lower currency and wage standards would have an advantage that would Immediately test the cooperative spirit of other nations that might be at a disadvantage.
•	• e
STEEL—
Taking steel manufacture, for instance, the effect of a decline in armament expenditures in Europe would immediately be to release the pressure on Continental steel mills and permit them to look for commercial markets. For some months our own steel industry has been in a particularly strong position because an overflow of European business has been backing up Into this market and strengthening the trading position of American mills in their dealings with consuming interests in the home market. Steel markets outside of the United States have not had to seek business in the United States. In fact, they have been buyers of scrap and pig iron, even some makes of finished steel In small quantities, when they could obtain them. The Iron Age this week mentions that European demands would offer a good cushion for American mills if they should still be available when domestic demand has eased. But what if European mills should cease much of their armament work and start looking for other sources of consumption? Would the question of a tariff to keep out foreign produce come up, and how would this fit in with a worldwide movement to remove trade obstacles between nations? Obviously there are many complications to be met in a worldwide approach to free and peaceful trade relations.
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—
Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange two stocks made new highs and 173 stocks made new lows for the year 1937.
New Highs— Coca-Cola A. • New Lows— Abbott Lab. .
Air Reduction Air Waj Elco. Am Bank .Note Am Br Shor. Am Cryst Ku*. Am I^cnmn pf Am Mach A M Am Rod A KN Am R A 8S pf Am Nmtl* pf. Am Ntrel F pf Am Ntore* .	.
Am Type Fdr* Am \\ nt Vt k* Arnold Consta Arsoc Dry Gds All GAW I pf Beatrice Crm’y Bcldin* Hem. Bendlx Avlnt'n Rktyn £ Qu'n* Bucyrus Erie. Budd Mf* Co. Byer*. A M.. Bjers, A 51 pf Calif Parkin* Calumet A lire Campt>eU H’t Cannon 51111*. Checker Cab. .
Chea 4 O pf A Ch 5 Lai I Order Clark Equip. . Collin* A Alic Colo l’uel & lr Col Gat A El Colum Pict pf Com ln\ Trust Com Solvent* Con* Edis NY Cont Can . . . Corn Prod Ref Crown Ck A S4 Cr CJtSl pf ww Curtis 1*uhU*h Corti* I’ub pf Curtin* ttr’t A Detroit Edison Diani'd Mcb pf Dome Mine* Dornin Store*. Dousiua Aircr Dunhill Inter du Font de N Electric Boat Equtt Off Bld* Fidelity Phen.
First Nat StoT. FHntkatr . . -Fuller GA prpf Fuller G A 2pt GnmrweU
Gen Am Inv pf den Am Tran* Gen Bronse . . Gen Motor* . . Gen Motor* pl Gen Outdoor Gan Print Ink Gen R> Strnal Gen Rltv A U Gen St Cant pf Gen Thea Eq. Gobcl Brw* • Green, fl. L Greyhound n Greyh	pf
Gulf Mob A N Harb Walk pf. Haye* Body . Hercule* Mot. Hiram Walker. Holland Furn. Houdaltle H B Househt Fl pf. Hupp 51otor*. Lnt Honeater. Int Minins .. XntNIckrl pf. Jewel Tea . . . JoLzxs-Manv . . Kayser Julio*. Kenneeott ... Kresre Dep St I.nnc Bryant . Mapnn Copper Manhat Shirt. Mk St Ry prpf McQraw Hill. UcKrenpt T Pl McLellan Str*.
Melville Nboe. tforrell A Co n Nat Biscuit..
Sat Pr A Lt N'ehuier Bro* Newberry 5 pf s’ewport Ind
NFC Omnibus S"YC Ora pur w N Y Invest. . N X Shlpbldr. N Y Shipbid pf sort A W pf
Xor American.
Island Cr Coal
Nor Am Avia Otl* Elevator. Outboard MAM
•ac Coast 2 pf ’ne Gm A El ’nc Tel A Tel “•frlller Brew, Phelps Dodtr*
■»h Morri* Ltd FRA Tob B ’’ontul T Pf .
*re** Stl Car. 'r Stl C I pf Pullman Inc. Radin Corp .. Radio 1st pf. Reodlu* 2d pf Reliance Mf*. Reynold* Mrt. Reynolds Tob. Nafeway Ntr*. Shattuck F. G.
■imlth AO. Snider Packinc Hpzirk* VSith. Nperry Corp. . Ntd GAE fipf-Stone A Web Superheater .. lym Gould xw Tldcwut A**o* Timken Roller Trans A W A. Tri Contin pf Twin City R T TwinCltyRT pf Union Carbide Tn Air Trans I ntt A Bosch X’ntt Biscuit. . Unit Carbon., k S Freight.. .
J N Gypttim. T S Pipe A F VS Rlty A Imp Unit Stores pf
_nl\ Leaf Tob tt ard Bak A Ward Bak pf tt aukeatu* Mo tteat'n Union, ttesttnc Air Br VVe*tln*b Elec West Elec Lns‘t Weatmco pf. Wright Aero. Zenith Radio.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.