Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 28, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 13
HOW THE^ STAND—
	Since	Additions
Increased Earning*:	Dec. 1	"Yesterday
Industrials 		...	48	2
Rails		.. .	7	. .	a
Utilities 		...	44	3
Decreased Earning*:		
Industrials 		. ..	23	1
Ralls		... . 28	
Utilities		...	34	1
Market Diary
F>*»c*. cable* ............
XSertloc. cables ........	.. •
New Tori* bank raxa .... Kraerre By*tcm ratio ....
Copper, domestic .......... Lead. New 1 ortt .......... JEUvrr. New 3 ark .	.......
f»leel scrap. Rit-t* No. 1. . line. East 8L Lovts ..	.
FBtum:
t nffec. Rio. M*y .......... Corn. Ms>	........ .
Cotton. M*>	.......
IlMZrs. Juur .	...........
Oats. May ............  ...	.
Rubber. Ma> .............-.
Mik. May ...................
suror. raw. No. 3. May • Tin. standard, Alay .	.
It beat. M*3	...	..
Wool tops* May..............
10Ur-ll 4.73	
<	44*« 13730-14.00	45k« LS.t5-lM.13
».OO	
4.34	«.y?
61‘t.	104^
5.37	12.41
11.IS	15-33
3O-->	414*
l&.tk	•t.w
1.46	t.oova
-.30	t.M
43.00	5I.4O
	1354*
*2-3	111.0
By Robert Laffan
The week opened with some expansion oi activity and a weaker trend to stock prices. Trading at 1.360.000 shares was a little above the recent average and the Dow-Jones industrial share index dropped 3.91 points,, rails a point and utilities 0.61 points.
Tax selling continued to play a part in the soitness. but the radio speech or Assistant Attorney General Robert H. Jackson was actively discussed in Wall Street and was blamed in many quarters for the day’s unsettlement Warning that the Administration planned an aggressive drive on monopoly and that government spending and taxing would have to be increased if ’‘big business” did not mend its ways, the speech awakened an uneasiness that has been undercurrent since President Roosevelt’s last utility conference, since the wage and hour bill was defeated and since Washington dispatches began to describe the Administration as impatient or discouraged with business cooperation efforts.
Steel shares lost last week’s buoyancy. Bethlehem dropped more than 4 points and U- S. Steel. Youngstown and several others cased abruptly. Recent enthusiasm over rearmament possibilities was chilled AU of last week’s favorites were lower and a number of pivotal issues went to new low ground for the year. General Motors and Chrysler were conspicuous in tins regard. Tax selling probably played a part in the weakness of these issues and In numerous oth^rc, hut the tnx seller'’ appeared in no hurry to replace their lines.
Rails, rail equipments, electrical equipments, o*ls and coppers were weaker. The utility section continued to give ground easily, following up a tendency that has been developing over the past week or more.	,
Bonds were a little easier and commodities were irregular.
• • •
REFORM—
Wall Street is now fully prepared for a renewed reform drive at the forthcoming regular session of Congress, numerous incidents, of which the Assistant Attorney General’s speech is the most conspicuous example, pointing in that direction. But it has not lost hope that Congress itself can be an effective safeguard against laying the whip heavily on business. The attack on monopolies by the Assistant Attorney General drew quick criticism from U. S Senator Josiah W. Bailey. Democrat of North
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—
Monday on the New York Stock Exchange, two stocks made new highs and 80 stocks made new lows, for year 1937.
HomeetnlteMl*
New Low*—
Am BH No<« Pt Am Om .... Am a b P ept Am lataroaVi Am a«t» km Am atsrao * • Am so**r • . -Am ropaeno. Am T»b** B. Arena* U*nia*a Am Ul pr px. .
AtdMaoo pt . Boat A Co . . . Bond Store*...
Koftf/o Co. . Bower ttoli Ur Bristol Myer* Bklyu X Qus pt Bklyn Mm 11 Bkiyn-M IT pi flklyn Un Cm Brown Sboe Bury-Er 7% Bush T “3 dab Cans Packin*. Celanese Corx>-Ctiryater ....
Clark Equip do* Grap* Hr Com credit . Coat Cm . Cr'w ZeUe* p> Cod&by PMk* federated L» » c»ee Motor* Oca f*ob Ser* CilxnbeJ ttrao..
Goodrich pf. . . Goodyear pl Urenttr City "*> Grout. W 1 pf art ^ot K> D notlandrr A r-Hnpp Motor* int l“np*1*w p’ Int'state t>> p K1mb*l> Clarl* l^kcnt*ert	.
Loose Wiles . MarwAali btela Mayta* pf ww McKeeapt 'X Pl MeKeaaA M pt Mend Corp . .
Menxel B% pf. MhF A HMM pf BUaalec Carp.
C“pa* Nat Bd * law Nat Tea .... otis mt 1 pt. r*€ MUM ... Pitta steel as Kadio cv pf. BaiiaM* sere Bep sstJ Pt A Kcy-nolda Mp's Mareway Mira SOT-rei
Htmonds Mt Mtt.
<'*»»•»
Hprneei Heirs Unlt-< -arr Pm* L s HufTm P-Univ (!ye» HU
West Auto Sep IXIltya-Ovpr .
Woodward Iran v*n Trk 7^ pf
Yooag Bp A W
Carolina, who termed it a “publicity speech,” and who contended that there is a Department of Justice to prosecute such offenses when it finds them.
There was a time when it was quite safe to condemn and criticize trusts or monopolies without risk of a comeback from any quarter, least of all a political quarter; but today even politics appears to be developing more realistic tendencies. In any event, there evidently are some members of Congress who feeL that an attack on monopoly is not the order of the day, at least not at this moment.
* • • •
STEEL—
Steel operations this week are scheduled for levels that haven’t been seen since the worst phase of the last depression. The current week’s 19.2s; rate compares with the extreme low of 13% in the week ended August 31. 1932. Last week the rate was 2312Cr . based on American Iron & Steel Institute estimates.
The figures reflect the drastic cui-tailmcnt in automobile operations over the holidays. During recent months when railroad and other heavy construction work has been reduced to a minimum, there has been a great deal of dependence on automobile takings and demand from miscellaneous sources. With the three leading motor makers shut down tight over the holidays, and rather indefinite about the schedules for resumed activity and the scale of operations following resumption, steel producing facilities have had to be drastically reduced to prevent an accuiuulation of inventories.
TANKER CONSTRUCTION—
That an extensive program of tanker construction is being considered seriously by pri-
vate industry and the government is evident from that fact that other companies 'beside* Standard Oil of New Jersey axe interested in the project. Original advices from Washington indicated that Standard Oil of New Jersey was working out a plan with the Maritime Commission for construction of 20 tankers for which financing to an extent of about $60,000,000 would be advanced by the government. Apparently the government is interested in encouraging the construction of tankers with greater speed and efficiency than those now in service, embracing this idea as part of the general desire to build up a strong merchant marine.	*
It la expected that some tankers will be taken up by such companies as Sun Oil, Gulf. Atlantic Refining and other oil companies that now have tanker fleets.
Also lending further plausibility to the view that the Administration has a keener eye to national defense currently is the announcement from Washington that the Navy Department is studying budget figures on the possibility of obtaining two new battleships, in addition to the two warships whose keels have already been begun.
* * •
CONSUMERS GOODS—
Curiously enough, some of the managers of investment funds are inclined to show a little preference for shares of durable goods industries rather than some of the consumers goods issues. The assumption is that deflation in certain durable goods lines has been so drastic in the past sue months that there is a better chance for a rebound in that field than there is in certain consuming lines that have been slower to feel the effects of the letdown. It is felt that if the durable goods industries fail to Improve any after the ycar-end, consumers goods buying power will be drastically curtailed and the latter industries will fee] the impact of a deflation that has been half hidden, by holiday buying and by consumers dipping into their reserves to meet current expenditures.
At one time the consumers goods Industries enjoyed distinct preference, due to government spending. However, it is recognized that private employment in the past year loomed much larger than government spending as a stimulant to consumer-goods sales and any step-up in relief payments at this stage would hardly do more than provide a fillip to buying power that would be short-lived If aot backed up by private spending for capital goods.
Once again it must be noted that managing Investment funds today is much closer to what once was considered strictly speculative operations sir.ee it has much more to do with conserving or bettering principal rather than capturing unreliable interest Thnt the problems are perplexing is evidenced by the fact that many investment trusts will end the year with an unusual proportion of uninvested cash or government bonds
• • •
INTEREST RATES—
There is considerable interest In reports that some of the British banks are bidding more aggressively for deposits. Instead of adhering to a 1% rate under what was understood to be an agreement, there has been a number of offers of 2r/c, with the result that some banks are pulling deposits from others and from other countries
With the general level of bond prices reduced. it is possible for a bank to bid for new deposits and obtain a fair yield in the open market.
Something - mmriar developed here recently wnen savings and loan associations began to pull deposits from saving institutions by offer-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.