Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAIFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 25, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 13
HOU THEY STAND—
Increased Earning*:
Industrials .
Rails.............
Utilities .
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials
Rails
Utilities
Since October 1 126 . 11 .	32
5©
33
1ft
Additions Saturday
8 ’
2
&
HIGH AND LOH PRICES
Saturday on one stock made a new lows for the .New High—
Otia Stl pt or
New Lx>ws—
.he New York Stock new high and year 1937.
Exchange
20 stocks nir'de
i lations governing trading undoubtedly have I worked some hardship, much overemphasis has ' been placed on this phase of the situation and a great de<*2 of alarm spread as a result of rc-‘ peated suggestion- that the market has lost • much of its normal underlying support. Thus la:	nothing nas occurred marketwise that
really could be considered inconsistent with the past and there are enough uncertainties in the field of world economics without attributing I everything that has occurred to trading regulations.
element of the credit situation, which is really a twin of the investment holdings problem. This is another reflection of the point made oy Mr. Gay and it illustrates that more attention by the federal government must be given to the position of private finance.
BY ROBERT L-UU'FA.*^
Heau offerings came into the at Saturday’s opening, apparently on the theory that favorable selling levels would be created h*» the freight rate increase on specific commodities announced at I ridaj\ clo>c. Ilowcicr, the anticipated demand tailed to appea’. and initial prices were generallv lower.
1 h-appointincnt oxer the
:<• the mo*t striking piece in manx weeks brought i the session progressed .
stock market
Amer ids	.
Am R Jt SSpf Be* i a o>
Capital Ad A Olmieae prpT Cxirti* Pub t»t <»en	pf
Granite CIF*-Hark Watw Hwnill Wat pf Inland Ktaei. Tnt TAT For rt MeadCp pfBnw
tfettn. El 6 Pt
he low prices. However, odd day exceeded buying for the line to the cleaning out of
I	’
lr.arkct > nspon'C * o: cojht.uctnc nevb incica'iiig prc'Mirc a'* Reports of a further slump m steel operations in the trict caused renewed selling of which broke through Tuesday’s to new low ground for the year
Generally speaking, however, closing prices lows of the in the Dow* 127 1ft com-rails closed 30.09. and Satin day's
tage ot on that account ti aders full force ol the odd lot buying appeared.
Pittsburgh dis-Steel common, resistance level at 52’-.
found the list, slightly above the current decline Industrials used Jones average-pared with tlu \va at 32.32. against utilities at 2«iS-i dealings were the hour session with
1 ndtisfinls ended the week at
i 2.3 73 low at
19 63
m histoiy for a two-
low of the 1937 against b: oadcs
921 individual issues traded
MID-WEEK RALEY—
Tn the biggest trading in foui years the market plunged to new lows last week and promptly bounced up with immediate preceding mg swiftness From high, measured
averages,
Monday's
a rally that rivaled the decline in its breath-tak-Tuesday’s low to Thurs-by the Dow-Jones indui* t-ial averages, was a difference of a cool 22 points Monday's break of 10J-_ points in the industrials was the most drastic of the recent decline. By Tuesday morning numerous small nuyers made an appearance, many of them comparatively new to Wall Street, to take advan-
da
lot sales odd lot many small was not until Wednesday that the New
accounts were opened in amazing volume and the customers' names in brokerage office* underwent an almost complete transtormation as old accounts, swept away in the decline, went oft the books and the new names appeared
Tuesday’s market was not turned about, however, by odd lot buying. Substantial buying orders for Europe and, for the first time in recent months, for inside interests were what produced the Tuesday afternoon upturn. Short covering gave the market additional leverage or. thn wax tip
BUSINESS—
I One of the features of the domestic business situation of the past several years has been the vigorous nature of the recovery in consumers goods products and the comparatively tardy upturn in durable goods lines Even at this moment it is still remarkable the way consumer purchasing power has held up while the capital market has gone into an abrupt decline Retail sales of leading merchandising companies have in the main continued to make fairly satisfactory comparisons with a year ago but railroad equipment, building construction and domestic machine tool buying has slumped.
President Charles R. Gay. of the New York Stock Exchange, pointed out during the past we*ok the “desperate need” of having the channels of capital expansion opened, a need whnh I now is greater than at any time since the World War Neu capital obtained through securities flotation^ last ycai. he pointed < ut amounted to ^1 200 900.000 Just prior to the depression annual totals ranged from M 500 -000 000 to nearly S9 000 000 000 Such recovers as has been experienced is traceable in la: go measure to the stimulation nf consumers buy-j ing through disbursement of federal funds ! rather than to expanding payroll* that attend i new construction. It is difficult tn draw anx conclusion other than that government spending of deficit created funds must be replaced by private investment in productive wealth, according tn Mr Gav
CORPORATE TAXES—
Leading corporations had every intention only a few months ago of borrowing for business purposes as they approached the fall season. Others had plans for the flotation of new capital issues- Now their plans have been badly upset, particularly as under the undistributed profits tax law they pay a major portion nf their earnings in dividends or suffer a stiff tax penalty. This law has thrown corporate managers and corporate investors into great confusion, for no one is quite certain 1 how to proceed at this particular point Fnc -managers of business are not certain whether
; they should distribute profits and run the risk ’ 'of not being able conveniently to 1 eborrow for' I working capital purposes, or whether to with- j ; hold dividends and suffer an extremely heavy ' tax assessment. While this confusion exists, it. t is difficult to place a market valuation on cor- | I porate shares for no one can be certain of how to appraise dividend and earnings posibilities l ' About all one car. do at this point is to realise' ' that the market already has gone a considerable] i distance in discounting all the known and un- | favnrabk elements in the finar.cia^situat ion and to hope that Congress at the ncv. session whicu is tn begin next month will take steps tn rcclifv < many nt the present cnnrLtions which it ha- ’ helped to create
One thing *s certain that Congrc** is no’ happy over the tailing commodity and socuiitv 1 price* and any steps within it.* power probably will be taken to change the direction of price levels.
BANK CKKDtT—
Tl’KN ?
The a.tmn of the market for the next several days will be watched with cor. ideraidc interest. Among the favorable straws is the extreme pessimism which has become general, the premiums which have begun to appear in number of leading stocks and which indicate mores•dng short intercut, and finally, the that despite the so-called “regulated” ? not supposed to have substantia] volume of 000 O00 shares changed the worst phase of this drrlinc net loss in price* for that dux shows plmnlx that p» it v lcxcls 'actor and that l he buying get low enough to attract While many of the regu-
an fac stock market, which is the power to absorb a offerings, more than 7 i hands during * without any
This pri haps shows plmnlx that p» it v arc still the determining factor and market can ho expected to meet stron; interest when prices substantial buyers
I
Obviously t‘i< -r arc uuumv.imcs Mirrour. 1mg the picsci't business situation that make it unique A lev months ago the Fruor.u F.e serve authorities became wuri led over the deflationary implications in the persistent selling of government bonds by membej banks Deliberate moves were made to cheik that tendency. Hj.vcvc:, there arc two dementi, in tin bank credit picture of equal imnortancc arid one is the Investment holding* of member bank* and the other the volume of loans During the period m which investment holdings of hanlts xxe'r being reduced commercial loans were expanding vign**nu*lx and that provided a s xr»-stanti.i.1 otisct to the deflation.*.rx .mphcatinns arising ii«»m iht sale of investments La:< lx however. businc*s loans have not horn rxp.in mg as expected and i’ i.* apparent that 'he credit managers must give consideration to this
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.