Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 16, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
HOW THEY STANU—
	Since
Increased Earnings:	Nov. 1
Industrials 		... S3
Ralls 				9
■Utilities 		...	34
Decreased Earnings:	
Industrials 		...	46
Ralls 		..	24
Utilities 		- . . 16 *
• •	•
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—	
Monday on the New	York Stock
one stock made a new high and 10 Iowa for the year 1937.
New High—
Pout pf
Additions
Yesterday
5	'
6
2
Exchange made new
BY Robert laffan
The market made a promising start yesterday, but it finished with prices in retreat. Adverse trade news contended with hopeful comments about the business outlook and since the former was the reality and the latter was rather nebulous, the market continued under the spell of the surrounding business influences.
The industrial a\ erages lost 3.83 points, rails were down 1.03 points and utilities 63-100. Recessions from the dav's high were more extensive for the market had climbed moderately in the morning. Commodities were weaker, grams giving up a good part of their recent gains. Bonds also receded
Steel common pushed up above 62 in the rooming and other steel issues did fairly well, hoping for a turn in the trade news. But this was not forthcoming and these issues eased swiftly from their highs. When the President’s message appeared on the news tickers the market was already down and it did not alter its course thereafter. On the contrary, prices continued to give way and in the last half hour selling became quite brisk.
Leading issues such as Westinghouse Electric, Union Pacific, International Harvester, du Font and Allied Chemical were down 4 to 5 points. Motor shares were quite weak, and oils, rubber, merchandising and movie issues gave grouuu.
Utilities gave a brief exhibition of firmness in the morning but few new’ highs on the rally were made and prices backed off with the rest. Rails also turned heavier.
RAIL TRAFFIC—
Contributing their bit to the general run of unfavorable news, individual carloadings reports for the latest week made an appearance and showed a general widening of the decline m traffic against a year ago. Undoubtedly, figures for the railroads as a whole will make an unfavorable showing this week. Judging from the first reports. Great Northern showed a 15% decline, against a 5% increase the week before in its own line loadings. Baltimore & Ohio was off 16.2% against a loss of 12.4% the week before. Atchison dipped under a year ago. against a 13% increase the week before. Thus, samples of both tbe crop and industrial roads showed a widening in the rate of business recession against a year ago.	.	_
• « *
MESSAGE AND MARKET ACTION—
Wall Street thought the President’s message pointed in the right direction, but it was not satisfied with the market action. The impression was that the market had gone as far as it could temporarily on psychological stimulation and it was settling back now waiting for tangible results to flow from all the encouraging things that have been said concerning relations between government and business.
As a practical matter, the market is still trying to contend against an overwhelming array of unfavorable business statistics and hopes are not entirely sufficient to insure continuation of the rallying movement. Realizing that time is the essence, the Street is hopeful that the concrete part of the government program will swing into action without delay.
6
7
2
New Lows—
am Crywt 6 pl	Grwne Canwu	8*few*.^ 8t 6pt
Am Ucm*tK pt	Klmb’lj Clark	Rtoor Ht ot.
Amoc OG 1 pi Mbm Op p?	VTioeXAUE pf
BloomUxxdale
STEEL ACTIVITY—
Further slump in steel activity was disappointing, particularly to the tracing element in the Street. The rise in Pittsburgh operations late last week encouraged some buying of steel shares by traders who thought such a showing forecast a bulge this week in the national average. But instead, the American Iron & Steel Institute reported a drop to new low ground at 36.4% against 41% the week before.
A sharp letdown in operations in the Chicago district more than offset the Pittsburgh upturn. Inland Steel, the big Chicago independent company, dropped its schedule 36% and this had a pronounced effect upon the schedule for that district.
MOTORS—	-
Motor shares have been backward for several days, showing little inclination to participate with the general market in rallying efforts. In addition to news of curtailed production schedules, the motors have been handicapped by new worries over labor policies. The week opened with news of an impasse between General Motors and the United Automobile Workers, the union rejecting contract revisions which included a disciplinary clause against outlaw strikes.
Business had hoped that labor would be more inclined to cooperate in an effort to get the business machinery running smoothly again but this and a few other indications have pointed to possible bickering again Reccntlv it was reported in Washington that labor leaders were annoyed because shoe workers m Nev.' England had agreed to waive a 5r/f pay raise This, they contended, was ’’a dangerous precedent” and they announced their determination to insist on maintenance of rigid wage scales This rigid attitude concerning wage rates is one of the things which has made for skepticism 4n financial quarters.
UTILITIES—
The technical position of the utility shares was considered weakened by the extensive runup in these issues during the past week. The quality of much of the buying in these issubs was not considered of the best, being in a large measure the strictly trading variety Small traders and professionals played a large part in the uprush, realizing that the group had been depressed severely during the past year and that most any kind of statement from Washington that could be interpreted constructively would serve to put these issues higher. The more careful were watching the trend of power consumption and they reduced their holdings on the bulge.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.