Abreast of the Market: Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 29, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
Market Diary
HOW THE! STANI>—
C*& tBOMT renew*! ....... Tim* money. 90 dayv...... Acceptances. 90 day* ...... CatnmmUJ paper ......... Fraxiee, cables ............
Sterling. cables ........... New Vcn-ti bank rata ...... Reserve System ratio ...... Copper, domestic ......... Lend, New Tor.: .......... SUver, New York ............
Steel scrap (Fitts. No. 1). . zinc. East St. Lotti* ••••
Fvtorcst
Coffee, Rio, July ........ Com. July .............
Cotton, July ............. Hides, June ............. Oat*. July .........
Robber, July .............
Silk, raw, Joly ............
sugar, raw (Cont. 3) July. Tin (Standard) Joly ........
Wheat. July ................
Wool tops, July ............
Wedii 1937	’1936
1%	
	
•0449 H	«0658V4
4.94 *	4.9444
	lMs.%
80.0%	78.2%
	«•»
45	4434
20^49X1	18*401*
	4.90
6.78	4.68
X17X4	619*
32.98	31.04
36.19	31.19
4494	2594
20.S3	15.97
l.ROt/k	1.51
2.51	2.81
54.35	45.45
31734,	
307.5	94.4
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	April 1	yesterday
Industrials 		. . . .	400	39
Ralls 		....	35	1
Utilities 		. ...	S3	4
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials		.. .. 66	5
Xalls 			. . ..	13	
Utilities 		.... 26	1
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Stocks suffered another pounding yesterday that proved worse from a volume standpoint than Monday’s, the turnover increasing to 2,500,000 shares against 2,020,000 on the earlier day. It was apparent from the outset that the market was in for a bad session. Prices opened distinctly lower and there was little opportunity for traders who had bought stock on Monday and carried over their positions to Wednesday to cash in on their profits. Instead, the penalty for delayed profit taking proved costly for prices quickly plunged down to their lows for the move and a good deal of Wall Street stock was thrown overboard.
There were frequent pauses, but each time the market activity dried up and the only price Improvement came between these pauses. Thereafter liquidation would be renewed on an active scale at a further sacrifice in price levels.
Late in the session U. S. Steel common, Douglas Aircraft, Yellow Truck, Bethlehem Steel and American Telephone were hammered down with particular force. All groups suffered in the setback. Allied Chemical losing 9 points and TJ. S. Steel common nearly 7. Yellow Truck and Douglas Aircraft showed about the greatest percentage decline. A few of the rails showed what little resistance there was to the declining movement. Utilities continued to give important ground, falling generally to new lows.
Commodities were generally affected and the bond market, with the exception of governments, lost ground.
• • •
ACCENT ON REFORM—
In speculative circles, it is always necessary to have a ready and timely explanation for each day’s stock market movements. Yesterday’s explanation was the distressing nature of the headlines on stories from Washington. True enough, news told of more official attacks on high prices, speculation, threats against monopolies and intimations that more government competition for utilities might be expected. But all of this, while it Indicated that there may be a strong accent on reform in the Capital, came as
something of an anti-climax to a market that has been behaving poorly for a long time.
Not long ago It was contended that the market was too big to be affected by politics and politicians. There is an element of exaggeration in that contention, of course, especially in these days when the public has handed over powers to manage money, wages, prices and many business activities that were thought to have no bearing on* Interstate commerce. However, it is a little far fetched to assume that an official frown has sent the market tumbling for extensive losses.
• * •
REACTION—
A market that has moved up in two years, frozp March, 1935, to March, 1937, to 194 in the Dow-Jones Industrial averages from 96, to 64 in the rails from 27, or to 34 from 14 in the case of utilities, doesn’t have to furnish any other explanation for a reaction (to 170 in the industrials) other than the normal, if unexciting, explanation that progress is not usually made in straight lines. There is a tendency, and it is still in evidence in many sections of Wall Street, to consider the only worthwhile market comparison as applying to that period of the twenties when prices climbed almost perpendicularly after brief, shortlived reactions. Even in that period, notably 1926, the market had reverses as extensive as the one which has occurred since early March of this year.
The period prior to the twenties, however, beginning approximately with the turn of the century and through the World War, was one of extremely sharp fluctuations in stock prices and recessions more drastic than those known in the twenties. The entire period beginning with the turn of the century was certainly one in which the industrial progress of the country was phenomenal, yet there were frequent periods when stock ownership was a painful process, when 55% margin would not have been enough to withstand the shock of reaction. Even in an era of broad industrial expansion,
HIGH AND LOW BRICES—
Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange no stock made a new high and 401 stocks made new lows for the year 1937.
New Lows— Air Way Elec Ainaloa Jnneao Alteg Hr pf. . Alles Steel . • Alien Indue. . Allied Chrmleal Allied Mills Allied Stn pf Amerada . .. Am Br Shoe Am CarAF pf. Am Com Ale. Am AFP 6p Am Hawa’n SS Am MachSFdy Am Mach A M Am Metals . . Am Pow A Lt Am P4L « pf Am PAL K pf Am Red A bS Am Male Ras Am Smeltins. Am Sugar ... Am Tel A Tel Am Type Fdrs Am Wat Wks Am Woolen. .. Am Woolen pf Anaconda Arnold Coosta Artloom Corp. Assoc X>ry (Ids Ac'c Iijvftpfww Atl Refining.. Atlas Corp. . . Auburn Auto.. Austin Nichols Aviation Corp. Bai<tK*fQ .... Baldwin aasd. Barber Co . . Barker Bros. . Bayuk Cigar.. Beatrice Crm*y Belding Hem. Brndix AvlatH Beneficial Ind. Beth Steel *7 pf BlAI>crkrrMf< Blaw Knox. . . Borden Co.. .. Bors Warner n Bridge Braaa Bklyn Man Tr Bklyn Man pf A Brunsw Balke. Hncyrna Erie. Budd Mfg Co. Budd Wheel.. Bullard ..... Butte Copper. Bn«h Trrm'l. Byers, A M. . Calif Packing. Calumet A Hee Campbell W’t-Canada Drj . . Can Pacific . Cannon Mills. Cent'l Aguirre Central Fctry. Ct in Lt4»~^pf Cerro de Pa*co Checker ("ah . Chea A Ohio. CH Ot W pf Ch Mall Order ch>wrxr pf Ch Pnru Tool Ch Pneu T'l pf Ch RlAP 6pf Chrj sler .... Cityice A Fl pf City Stores . . Collins A Aik Colo Fu«* A lr Colo A Sou2pf Col <.aa A Kl Col Picture ct Com Inv Tru«t Com boKrnts. Conde Nast. . Comrrraa Cmar Con* Clear... Con* Film pf. ('•on* Oil .	-
Cont Bakins A Cont Can .
Cant Diamond Cont Insurance Coat Motor... Com Ex Bank Com Prod Ref Cmaley Radio Cudahy Packs Curtis Publish Curtiss W right Curtiss Wr*t A Cushman “ pf Cushman R pf Dav eraS cv pf. Drisel Wrm G Don RGW pf Detroit Kdiaon Diam T Motor Diet Senrrania Douglas Alter Ilrj «er M(r A DnlxSAA! Ipf Dunhill Inter, du Pout de N Ea«tman Kod. Eltingon Schild El Pano Nat <j» El A Music Ind Elec Auto Ute Elec Boat . . Elec Pow A Lt Elec PAL 7 Pf Elec Stop Bat’y Elk Hom pt E«ult Off Bldg
Erie 1st pf. . . Eureka Vacu’m Evans Products Falrbka Morse. Fed Lt A True Fed Motor . . . Fed Water Ser Fed D Kt cv pl Firestone pf. . First Nat Stor Fllntlcote .... Freep't Snip. . Fuller GA 2 pf Gar Wood Ind. Gen Am Trans Gen Bronze . . Gen Cable ... Gen Cable A.. Gen Cable pf. Gen Cirar . .. Gen GAE A. Gm GAE 6 pf <>en Motors . Oen Pub Serv Gm R> Mmal Gm RttyAl) pf Gen St Cast pt Gen Ttieat Kq. Gtmbet Hr R pf Glenn L Mart . Glidden ......
Gabel, Adolf. . Goebel Brew's. Gotham S IIoS. Gotham S H pf Grand l’n pf.. Grant. XV. T.. Green, H. L.. . Greyhound n.. Guantanamo S. Gulf Mob A N 'Gulf MAN pf Hat Corp A. . Hayes Body . . Hecker Prod. . Hiram Walker HoudalBo H R Hud A Manhat Hud A Man pf Hnpp Motor* ngeraoll Rand, niand steel.. .
’ nsptration ... nmir’shares ct nterboro »• * “nt Business M nt Mining.... nt Nickel nt Ry Cea Am _nt Salt ..... nt Shoe .... nt Tri A TeL Jewel Tea . . . Kalamazoo Stv Keith-Al-Or pf. Kelsey Hayes B Kennecott . . • Keystone SAW Kresge. S. S. Kroger GrtB Xuaclede Ga» pf Lane Bry ant-.. Lehigh Pt Cam Lehigh Valley . Lehi \ al CoaL I<-O-F Glass. LUrg A Myer* B Ixwin St Cem. . Loriilard	• •
Louis A Nash. Manati S eta Mandel Bros. . ManRy 5 mgti Manhat Shirt. Maracaibo OU MJct St Ry 2pf Marlin Rock . Masonite Corp Mathleson Alic May Drpt str McIntyre Pore McKrrspt T PI McLellan Sira. Mesta Machine Miami Copper Mid Cant Pete Midland steel MSP A SbM pf Monaanto Chm Motor Wheel.
Mullins Mfg B Mnrray Corp. Nat Acme . . . Nat Av iatlon.. Nat Biscuit . Nat Bd A lire Nat Dairy Pr. NstDp St 6%pf Nat Gypsum.. Nat I^ad .... Nat I-end pf B Nat Pr A Lt. Nat Tea .	. .
Newport Ind. . N etsner Bros . N’ Y Air Brake N1 O Om pur w N Y A Harlem X 5 Ont A W.
V Y Rhlpbldg N X Shipbid pf Norf A West Nor American. Nur Am Avia. Omnibus Corp. Owens ni Glass "’sc Am Fish. “*ac Coast 2 pf 'ac Gas A El ’sc Mills . . . Pae T A T pf Ntclcard Mot. 'arafHne .... 'aramotmt . .
Paramount lpf Paramount 2pf Parmelee Tra. Paths Film . . Penney, J. C. -Penn Coal A C PeopleiffGas . . Petrol Corp . . Phelps Dodge. Phlla Co 6 pf. Phlla Bap T Phlla R T pf PhlUtps Jones Phoenix Ro pf Pierce Oil pf. Pitts Coal.... Pitts Steel pf. Pitts Ter Coal Pitts Un pf. Poor A Co B. PortoR-A Tb A Pr Stl C 2d Pf Pub Ser N J. Pnb Ser Ts'JSpf Pullman Inc. . Purr Oil......
Purity Bake.. . Radio Corp . . Radin 1st pf. Xtaybestos M. Real Silk H pf Reis A Co. . . Reliable Sirs. Reliance Mfg. Rem Rand. . . Reynolds Sp*g Saf eway Strs ., Schulte pf. . Scab A L pf Bervel ...... Sbar St cv pf. Sharp A Doh. Shattuck F G Shell Vn OH . . Miner King. . . Sloss Sheff pfd Sou Amer GAP Sou Cal Edison Sou Rwy pf - • Sou Ry MobAO Spalding Bros-Spalding Br pf Sparks With • Spencer Hell’s Sperry Corp. . Spiegel Inc. - . SpfegeKVtcvpf* Std Brands. . • Std GAE VpF Std GAE 6pfl Std GAE 4pf A Std Oil Colli. Std Oil NJ... Stone A Web. • Superheater .. Superior Steal. Swift A Co... Sym Gould ww Sym Gould xw Tecwcssre Corp Tex Golf Prod Texas Gulf Sul Tex Pac CAO Ttoermoid .	. •
Thompson •* pt Tldrwat Assoc* Tlmkrn Detr . Timken Roller. Transamcrica Trans A W A Tri Continent'! Truscon Steel. Twin City R T TwtaCltyRT pf Vnder-Elliot .. Union Carbide Unit Aircraft, tn Air Trans Unit Am Bosch Vnlt Biscuit.. Vnlt Carbon . nit Corp - .
Unit Corp pt. Vn El Coal. . I nit Emit . . 1 nit Gm Imp V S For 1 pt. ’ s Freight .
U S Gypsum. U 8 IndAlcohol -J S ripe A F. VS Klty A Imp “J S Rubber pf U S Tobacco. . Unit Stockyds. Unit Stores A. Vttl PAL A Vanadium . . . Van Raalte. . Vick Chemical. Va-Car C 6 pf Vs lr C A C. Waldorf byst.. WalgrceJi ....
Ward Bak’g A Ward Bak's B Warner Pict’s. W arrrn Td A P Waukesha Mot Webster Elsrn. Wrst Maryland West Md 2 pf W rstern I. nion Westing Air Br Weston El Inst W estvaco Chi. White Motor. . Wliite S M Pf. Wilcox OH A G W oolworth . . • Worth Pump. . Wright Aero. . YeUow Trk pf. Zonlte Prod...
the generality that equities are preferable to cash may not be enough protection against a reaction, not if the profit outlook, as distinct from the business volume outlook, is jeopardized by rapid costs increases.
• • •
PROFITS—
The market’s disregard of first quarter earnings statements hardly can be termed an accident of circumstances. In too many cases it has been clear that extraordinary volume and low priced inventories played a large part In the showing. Practically every leading corporation reporting earnings for 1936 showed in its balance sheet a sharp rise in inventories, some of them carrying their inventories above the 1929 level.
Stocking up to beat the price rise was conducted at such a merry pace, stimulated by impending wage increases, shorter working hours, 'armament talk and “inflation'* that all the appearances of an extraordinarily healthy profits outlook appeared to be in xhe making. What the market probably has taken Into con-Please Turn to Pago Fourteen
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Abreast of the Market
■ ■■ -Continued from Page Seventeen alteration is that industry has not been tested yet on the new level of material and wage costs, and that the test will come during the current quarter and in the balance of thia year. The most healthful sign at the moment is the evidence of price shading which has appeared in wholesales lines and in the textile trade, in the decision of the steel companies not to raise third quarter prices, in lower copper prices. These steps may help to prevent business from suffering a serious setback resulting from extraordinary cost and price increases.
• • *
RAILS—
Behavior of several of the rails yesterday encouraged those who are looking to this group to furnish prclit. making opportunities. Atchi-s' n’s performance stood out particularly. After several years of subnormal crops in its territory, Atchison appears likely to be favored with good conditions this year and the stock of that road might well do somewhat better th^n the general market, whatever the general trend may be. Northern Pacific also appeared to encounter good support. If that road refunds its $100,000,000 6% bonds, say on a	basis, it
would mean a saving of $1 a share annually for the common. Crop conditions in that road's territory are not as good as in Atchison’s, but th-s possible interest saving is something to be reckoned with.
* * «
U. S. STEEL—
The fact that TJ. S. Steel common continued to be a focal point for much of the selling tended to support rumors that there was a fairly good amount of foreign liquidation taking place. The last official figures on U. S. Steel, those for the first quarter of this year, showed that foreigners added extensively to their holdings of that stock early this year, following large increases throughout 1936. The stock also has been the favorite trading vehicle among American issues on the London Stock Exchange, its rapid price fluctuations recently giving it a broad trading following. Great Britain's stiffer margin regulations, following a period in which accommodations were much more liberal than they are here, manifestly hurt some of the traders abroad who held that stock.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.