Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 14, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 19
By Robert
Prices gax-e ground
Laffax
_	_	with surprising ease
as the new week opened. Trading was at a limited pace at only a little more than a million shares, but the industrial average lost 4 points, rails were off 1.06 points and utilities dropped 47-100.
Far eastern developments caused pressure on stocks in the London market before our opening and wc may have taken our cue from that action. However, the market in another sense merely showed a continuation of tendencies that appeared to be developing in the previous week. Utility shares continued under pressure as they have for some time. Consolidated Edison, North American, Electric Power & Ldght and American Water Works were carried down. Another development that could be traced to last week’s performance was the abrupt decline in American Can whlcn lost points. That stock has been under pressure for more than a week.
Meanwhile, some of the higher priced industrials, chemicals, electrical equipments and a few others that have been showing signs of strength, gave way yesterday with the general market. Oils, steels, coppers and railroad equipments weakened. Railroad shares also worked lower in quiet trading.
The bond market was easier and commodity markets lost some ground.
their steel stocks
	Since		Aditdions
Increased Earnings:		Dec. 1	yesterday
Industrials ......		28	3
Rails 				1	
Utilities 				13	1
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 				11	4
Rails 				17	7
Utilities 				2	2
• • • SIGH AND LOW PRICES—			
Monday, on the	New	York	btock Ex-
have been that were
liquidating some of bought recently for a rally.
several
PREFERRED DIVIDENDS—
There has been some switching out of preferred stocks where the dividend coverage is not large or where there is a threat of its being unearned. into medium priced bonds. In some cases the switch has been from preferred stocks into better grade common stocks whose dividend positions appear well fortified.
It may seem like a strange procedure to let go of a dividend paying preferred stock and acquire a common stock, but these are strange times. As a consequence of the undistributed profits tax, preferred dividends are considered quite speculative for to preserve a company’s working capital management is considered quite likely to pass dividends on senior stock promptly where they are unearned. The mere prospect that the undistributed profits tax may be changed next >ear would not alter the picture for it must be remembered that the bulk of the past year’s earnings has been paid out. A common stock that has a fairly stable earnings record, therefore, is considered superior to a preferred stock of a company with an erratic dividend* record.
UTILITIES—
Utility stocks continue to give market followers some reason for uneasiness. The general sentiment of the Street recently has been mildly bullish, at least for the next
weeks. But in order for the upturn to extend itself it has been, taken for granted that the utility shares would lend their support to the movement. On the contrary, these issues have been sagging steadily and many of those who bought utilities on the expectation of market appreciation as a result of the government’s offer of a truce arc quite disappointed.
Not the least bit helpful marketwise has been the organized	*	*
New York City to first drive against dated Edison has this type of news It is significant how quickly some civic, consumers and trade union groups are to move against utility rates for it indicates that political attacks of recent years have planted the idea in the public mind that utility rates are exremcly high. There is no doubt that the cost of living has gone up sharply. However, utility rates have been coming down in recent years while food, clothing and taxes have been mounting. Instead of attacking taxes, particularly the hidden ones, the consumers groups in New York City, which claim representatives from 300 organizations, slide into the groove that has been carved by political policies, namely the utility rate structure.
move of several groups in attack utility rates as the high living costs. Consoli-becn heavy recently and has not helped the stock.
FOOD PRICES—
November hotel food creased .94 as compared price levels according to Hotel Food price index, from the preceding month they were still well above a year ago.	‘	‘
126.57 against 117.82 in an increase of 7.43%.
While meat prices from the October level, last November’s levels, come down from the level of a year ago. cidentally, this is contrary to Wall Street’s expectations for about a year ago it was considering the speculative possibilities in fish and seafood as a result of the threatened shortage in meat supplies. The public apparently has not been diverted from meat to seafood by the shortage in the former: It merely is eating less meat and making it go a longer distance by serving
purchase prices de-with October, 1937. the latest Grinstead While prices were off
was
The November index November a year agro.
have decreased 4.44% they are 20.31% above Fish and seafood have
In-
smaller portions
STEELS—
Steels have developed a heavier tone just at the time when operations in the industry appear to have flattened out. This week’s production rate is estimated by the American Iron & Steel Institute at 27.4% of capacity against 27.5% the week before.
As against this indication of the flattening out in production following Its extended decline, there has been some concern expressed oyer dividend possibilities. Action of .American Rolling Mill directors late last week in omitting the common payment has brought sympathetic selling into some of the other independent steels. It is true that Bethlehem Steel declared a dividend for the year-end but the stock has sold off since that announcement whereas the American Rolling Mill omission has made itself felt over a wide range of steels. Since the market has indicated plainly where the line of least resistance lies, floor and commission house traders
BANK
The proved for the latest reporting week, banks in 101 cities report an increase of S10S,-000.000 in total loans and investments for the week of December 8, which is about in line with the increase Reported earlier by New York City banks.
New York City banks have been buying government securities recently in larger amounts than they have been sold by out of town banks. Commercial loans of the out of town banks, which have been going down steadily, have flattened out.
CREDIT—
bank credit picture is somewhat im-Member
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.