Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 15, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
one is a certainty while the other is less certain fringe it depends upon the public’s purchasing power. This is one of the problems that has helped to retard a stronger measure of building recovery to date.
measure of build-
Market Diary
RY ROBERT LAFFAN
Distinct improvement in the
HOW 1'HEk STAND—
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings: Industrials 			Septi ...	30	yesterday 1
Rails			. . . 8	2
•TTHHHm			...	17	1
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 				.. .	19	1
Rails			.. . 10	1
Utilities 		... 2	1
HIGH AND LOW PRICES— Tuesday, on the New York no stock made a new high, and new lows, for the year 1937.
Ebe change.
Stock
60 stocks made
Distinct improvement in the stock market was noted from the opening yesterday, some fair sized blocks of leading issues being taken at overnight advances of a point or more. Some of the more volatile issues had wider advances. After some hesitancy through the first hour, during which period opening levels were shaded, the market moved forward again and showed steady improvement to the close.
-	At the finish industrial issues used ir*
-	averages were up 4.90 points to 162.90. Rails gained 1.08 points to 41.85 and utilities gained
-	86-100 to 25 25.
" There were a few weaker features during the day, the most conspicuous being Western Union and Union Pacific. Tbe rest of the market went
-	along pretty generally with the advance. Steels generally turned stronger and were 2 to 3 a points up at the close. Mail order, chemical, rubber, farm equipment and machinery Issues also showed brisk gains.
Rails showed limited improvement at first,
-	encountering some opposition around the high _ points of the previous day, but after that stock
absorbed they went on to show further -	-	•	became a little
Utilities moved.
New Bows—
Am Com Ale. Am Hmva'n 89 Am Met pf.
Am Stores . • Atlas Powder. EiaOecfcorMfs Bklyn-M Tr pf Brawn Suae . Byers, A M pt Celanese prpf Colo Foe X lr Colom Carbon.
Consum Pow pf Cudsliy Packs Cushman V p> Elec Star Bat*y rood Macb pt. Foster Whir p> Fuller GA 2 pt Gen Refract.
Grand Union. Grt West Sok Green Bay & W Hercule* Pwd Hou*eh Fin pf fnl By CenA ct Kream Dep St Life Barer* Loom Wile* .. Lorlllard . . • Stlct Hi By 2Pf Blelrillo Shoe. Mo Pacific pfi Morri* X Eases Nat Bd & Shr.
Nat Supply pl Nat Tea . .
N F ChJfeSt OU* Stl 1 Pf Outboard MAM
Parafiloe •	•
Fenn GIMetf.
Per* M*rqaeU Pitta Ter O Pure OU	•
Quaker St Oil
Bcbalta . . . Bou CaJ Ed!»on Sunshine Mnr.. Superheater .. Sutb’I’d Paper U S Foreign Va Ir C * C. Va lr CXC pt Viry Ry pf. Ward Bale’s A Warner Qain Weat Un Tel. Worth P of A Wright Aero.
government finance and a tendency to discuss
BUSINESS—
Business reports coming1 spotted condition. However, has discounted a strong measure of the unfavorable n-.m. the Street is looking for encouraging indications. Chemical sales thus far in the current quarter reflect slower demands from the textile and leather industries and are running at about the same level as a year ago as against 20% to 30% increase shown during the second quarter. Machine tool orders, on the other hand, staged an unexpected recovery In August, being moderately above July after three" months of decline. Retail trade is also said to be responding to cooler weather after a disappointing August showing. Brick prices will be advanced in the East notwithstanding slackening tendencies in building through the summer months and further increase may be announced later, all of which may spell confidence In the ability of the industry to absorb the price increases.
to hand reveal a since the market
was _	-
improvement. Movie issues snore active on the advance.
= up quietly but firmly.
" Bond prices gave a better response to the credit easing operation of the Federal Reserve authorities. Even the commodity market perked
■ up some.
AMERICANS' CATs’—
- The outstanding thin market performance was staged by American Can which opened at 95^2 and did not sell for 54 minutes when - the next transaction was at 100. The stock finished with a net gain of 6% points. Esti’ mates that the pack of food crops will be large, and that general line business is showing encouraging gains, helped the issue to improve.
• • •
INFLATION—
Wall Street welcomed the breathing spell as
«n opportunity to get its bcaringB. Some of " the advisory services were predicting the decline waa over and were urging the purchase of stocks, forgetting similar advices weeks oi month/, ago. Some individuals of substantial means who manage their own affairs were less _ dined to make hair-trigger decisions about the future, being satisfied that they had light- ened up during the summer and had not been compelled to attempt liquidation in a market as J thin of bids as that of the past month. In near- ly all quarters however, there was more interest
In _ inflation possibilities,	*
The Federal Reserve operation in removing $300,000,000 from the sterilized gold account came in for a good deal of comment. There is an impression in financial circles now that there is no such thing as a sterilized gold account for the willingness of the credit authorities to tap it the first opportunity tends to explode the fiction that the idle gold is not part of our reserves. Whatever shifting from one pocket to another the credit managers may wish to do. Wall Street from now on is likely to consider sterilized gold as part of the potential supply. It may be dormant, but it is there. Whether the authorities care to use it piecemeal, or m one lump sum, makes little difference to outside observers.
DEFICITS—
Seven years of deficits, and the evident desire to perpetuate easy money against threats of even moderate tightness would appear to point in only one direction. The trouble is, after the probability of inflation is established, the question of how to invest is still present. Most common stocks are an unsuitable hedge since the average business concern is occupied primarily with purchasing materials, fabricating them, and reselling them to the public- The raw material producers remain, but since government’s quest for taxes becomes more eager it is likely to consider raw materials its own and levy taxes on private ownership accordingly. Obviously the happy conclusion common stocks	"	'	‘'
that inflation wealth.
The drastic a long way off. the meantime some of the problems arc already present. The building industry is struggling to round out a recovery only hall completed, measured by past cyclical standards. If taxes on property are certain to go higher then builders must be sure rents can go higher. The
______________	that are a hedge ignores the fact destroys and does not create
phase of inflation may still be or it may never appear, but in
• * * -
WESTERN UNION—
Western Union’s action in deferring dividend action at this time, announced after the close, comes as no surprise to Wall Street. It would be in error to jump to the conclusion that this is the beginning of a wave of unfavorable dividend actions by corporations worried over the stock market action and over the implications for business.
Western Union’s problems have been peculiar and can not be generally applied. It is true that higher wages have hurt income in view of the substantial labor item in total expenses. Taxes also have been a factor in decreasing earnings more than proportionately to the decline in gross. But the troubles go deeper than that. For some years Western Union’s gross business has not been keeping pace with business generally and this can be readily seen by charting it with the Federal Reserve business index. Meanwhile, telephone gross business and air mail have been gaining steadily and undoubtedly taking some of Western Union’s business. Radio also has entered the message field It can not be concluded, therefore, that Western Union’s troubles Rre an advance warning of what may be expected from other corporations as a result of higher costs.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.