Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 19, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 15
the Dow-Jones average dropping 10.57 points. Rails were off 2.78 points and utilities 1.12 points. Volume of trading expanded to 3,230,000 shares, against 2.540,000 shares last Friday. It was also the nwt active day during the declining phase which began in mid-August. The tape fell behind floor transactions several times during the afternoon.
The opening was fairly steady, and trading was uneventful through the first hour. Prices were a little softer toward the noon hour and receded more noticeably after that. Disappointing trade news helped to touch off more active selling movement, steels leading the way as reports of further curtailment In production reached the financial district.
Steel common dropped 7 points by the close and Bethlehem, Republic, National Steel and American Rolling Mill were heavy losers. Chrysler with an 11-polnt break stood out among tn* pivotal issues. General Motors lost more than
By ROBERT
Stocks suffered their	____r____________________ ,. _t..,
current movement yesterday, industrials used in~ trie 9%, Texas Corp. 6. American Smelting 7%
LXFFAN
widest decline for the~ 4 points. General Electric 5, Westinghouse Elec-
and Anaconda 4%. Similar losses were distributed throughout the list.
Rails were again driven down, the extent of their setbacks since August being no protection against further selling. New York Central, Southern Pacific, Southern Railway and Chesapeake &—Ohio were hard hit. Public Utility issues went to new low ground on a wide front.
The commodity markets and bonds were sharply lower. Wide spreads between bid and asked prices occurred in the bond market.
STEEI^^-
Estimates that TJ. S. Steel’s third quarter profits would show a balance of from $2.75 to $3 a share for the common, bringing income for the nine months up to the neighborhood of $8.70 to $8.95 a share failed to provide immediate stimulation marketwise despite the fact th* t the stock, selling in the sixties, appears cheap even if no Income is added to that total In the final quarter. Instead, the market bowed Immediately to the announcement that steel operations this week had dropped another 7.8 points bringing the national average down to 55.8% on the basis of American Iron & Steel Institute estimates.
“ Further decline in steel operations at this time admittedly was disappointing for the impression had been that operations were scrap-
ing bottom at around-63% to 65%. At least, no pronounced decline was expected at this time. Since operations are rather closely attuned to Incoming business it could only be concluded that new orders were not mateMallzing as expected. It would seem, however, that Steel common and all the other steel shares had far outrun the decline In business.
BUDD MANUFACTURING—
What the current market decline can do to individual stocks is illustrated by specific examples. Budd Manufacturing, for instance, automobile body maker and pioneer manufacturer of stream-line stainless steel trains, such as the Burlington Zephyr, Rock Inland Rocket and Atchison Super-Chief, has just reported earnings for the first nine months of this year equivalent to $20 a share on the preferred stock which is selling in the neighborhood of 50 and which has $49 a share in back dividends. On November 14, 1936, after the company had reported a loss of $547,400 for the third quarter of that year, the preferred stock sold at 95
There are numerous other preferred shares that have been carried down to a point where the earnings thus far this year are being ignored. Even assuming general business may be somewhat slower, and the rate of profits curtailed for a while, it would appear that a number of preferred issues and bonds had been carried down to extremes.
• • •
SHORT INTEREST—
While there may have been an increase in the day-to-day short trading, there is little evidence of a large outstanding short account. Bears appear to be as afraid of this market as everyone else. The New York Stock Exchange figures as of September 30 shows an increase of only 658 shares in the outstanding short position compared with August 31. the total figure being 967,593. In the previous bear market the short Interest was up to the neighborhood of five million shares and trading, of course, was much broader. The lack of support for a number of leading shares illustrates the absence of a strong cushion of support from bears. Such shorts as are operating appear to be running to cover quickly and have not been carrying large positions overnight.
COMMODITIES—	•	•	•
Further pronounced weakness In commodities starting this week was discouraging for it is another indication of poor trade buying. At the same time commodity prices must be getting down to a level where a strong technical rebound should materialize. Reports from business indicate that many purchasing agents are allowing inventories to run off. Thus far reports from merchandising "companies indicate that retail trade for consumers goods items has been holding up fairly well and some replacements of raw materials should be necessary before long. On durable goods items inventories have been moving somewhat more slowly.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.