Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 8, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
A breast of
the Market
New Lows—
Rorfrt I^affan
*The marker was seized with alternate chills and fever last week, the chills tending to predominate. Steady losses \vcrc encountered in the first half of the week and it was apparent that the abrupt short-covering movement of the preceding week had used up much of the market's immediate technical strength. Lacking stimulation of a basic nature, the market drifted back into its old rut and several issues dropped quictk to new low ground for the x ear.
Disturbing to some of the market followers who place considerable reliance in charts and technical form was the tendency for the averages to back away from the ascending pattern formed since late October. This easier tendency produced some loss of faith in the immediate prospect for steadier recovery.
It was noticeable, too. that several of the blue-chip issues, particularly the chemical and building shares which earlier this year enjoyed a comparatively high market appraisal in relation to earnings, were subjected to selling curing the week. Manv of these issues have been lodged largely in investment trusts and similar influential hands, suggesting that despite the quieter market tone, there was a sprinkling of selling by the larger investor classes.
Meanwhile, the absorption continued to be mostly of the odd-lot variety. Attempts to enlist speculative support on the upside fell rather flat on Friday. The tape printed a few strings of low-priced issues at higher prices during that morning, hut the market generally showed little inclination to follow that leadership and it backed away from the highs
* * *
COMMODITIES------
Pronounced heaviness in world commodity markets introduced a new note of caution in Wall Street Not that commodity weakness m itself is a new development, but its persistence has raised a number of questions which have tended to cloud the atmosphere.
The fact that commodity weakness has oern widespread has led to doubt that Washington is capable of changing basic trends which Ife outside its province. For this reason, the market has been less responsive to such matters as the possibiltiy of changes in undistributed profits taxes, realizing that that is but one of many elements in the business picture which have helped to produce uncertainty.
Once again commodity markets have come to realize that control and restriction schemes are not all they pretend tn be The action last week of the Brazilian Government, for instance in announcing that it will modify its pricecontrol program for coffee, reducing the tax. is a step in the direction of a free market.
Brazil, of all countries, should have been m position to control its principal commodity, since it is the leading country from a production standpoint and since its interests principally are m that one commodity. The commodity markets were compelled to realize that if Brazil, with more thnn 30 years’ experience in attempted control operations, virtually had to abandon them, there was some reason to ponder over the ultimate outcome of commodity-control schemes spondered by such countries as Britain and the United States
•> * *
BUSINESS—
Such business reports as are coming to hand mostly are on the unfavorable side, third-quarter earning statements being largely out of the way. Steel activity is easing and automobile buying of steel has not been increasing as expected.
In fact, motor production has been flattening out at a time when the normal expectation is for expansion. Lumber orders last week dropped 40% under a year ago. the biggest decrease reported thus far. reflecting curtailment in construction activity.
Electric power production, after recordblazing performances in the past two years, has begun to drop back near last year’s level. Retail trade, on the other hand, holds up comparatively well.
Many reports on business from manufacturing centers paint a picture of unnatural stagnation and this condition has the virtue of being too artificial to persist for long.
What stock-market policies to pursue at a time like this presents a problem that permits of no easy answer to anyone with even a halfway appreciation of the forces at work in the economic world. It is simple to urge purchase of stocks after they have declined substantially —almost too simple.
Some of Wall Street’s more successful citi-
HOW THEY STAND—
Increased Earnings: Industrials			Since Nov. 1 ...	54	Additions Saturday 2
Rails 	*			
Utilities		..	15	1
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 		.. 26	2
Rails			. .	7	4
Utilities			. .	7	1
• • » HIGH AND LOW PRICES	 Saturday on the New York Stock		Exchange
no stock made a new high and 20 made new lows for the year 1937.
AblM>n
Air HectactiQD Am Bic Note pt Am Mrf l»
Am SblpbldR Am iwn’ti pt
Rest A Co
Cannon Milla Coatm* Crane Co.
Culler tlam'r Ilcere Jb Co new Geo Am Irani
Gm By Sts Pl lurerooll llano laUuiO Steel.. Kennecott . . . N t AU Braki Ptkeipe Dodjw
Rbur St ©f
zens consequently are disinclined to make glib predictions, realizing that recovery may have stalled, though not necessarily permanently.
Meanxvhile Inflation is not to be dismissed, for, if business contraction goes too far, or threatens to be prolonged, the best opinion is that inflation most certainly will come. If it does, the type ol stocks one may wish to hold may differ quite radically from type one held through the past few years when we had a dash of orthodox recovery with a mixture of inflation.
Stockholdings might have to be selected from a strictly inflation viewpoint, realizing that -many types of issues are not suited to weather a trip of that kind.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.