A breast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 20, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Yesterday’s market finally dropped out of its trading area of recent days, numerous issues plunging to new low ground for the year* No specific news precipitated this decline. The accumulation ot unfavorable news merely overcame hopes for effective reconstruction efforts by "Washington. Nlanv issues had been showing some tendency to drift down to the lower areas and it needed but a little concerted liquidation to cause the entire list to decline.
Commodity markets continued to give an unsatisfactory performance and the bond market net a bad example the day before by falling to new low ground* Losses in the bond market were extended and selling activities in stocks were increased.
Large offerings of rails appeared as carloadings recorded another unseasonal decline. New York Central was offered freely and carriers generally declined. Some of the worst losses occurred in the higher priced issues, such as Westinghouse Electric, du Font, Union Pacific, Allied Chemical and Norfolk and Western. However, the liquidation was quite general, embracing such shares as Union Carbide, Loew's TJ. S. Steel, International Harvester, Chrysler, American Smelting and Sears Roebuck Losses for these issues ranged from nearly four points to more than six points in the case of Chrysler. General Motors also was subjected to heavy ‘ selling.
Utility shares finally lost their independent firmness and dropped back with the rest.
• • •
GLASS—
Retrenchment in operations at glass mak-
HOW THEY STA5D—
Increased Earnings;
Industrials ..........
Halls .................
’Utilities *.............
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials .............
Rails ..................
Utilities ...............
Since
Nov. 1
114
12
41
63
32
23
Additions Yesterday
6
2
2
1
ing plants is having its effect upon shares of these companies. Curtailment in building and automobile activity as well as in miscellaneous lines has brought about a pronounced shrinkage in new buying.
Trade reports indicate that demand has been slow and erratic and manufacturers are uncertain about how long this condition will persist Operations are being brought down to prevent an accumulation of supplies, for with business sentiment as it is at the moment consumers arc reluctant to contract for more than immediate requirements. In several instances specifications for delivery have been reduced or postponed, and this has brought manufacturing sehed’iies down to almost a day to day basis.
• » •
RAILS—
Rail issues found the carloadings figures a little too much for them. After several weeks of marking time and waiting for a ray of hone
either in the form of a prompt rate increase for an improvement In business, the carriers simply found the unfavorable news piling up a little too rapidly for comfort. Their main problem is to obtain an	in traffic and a general
upturn in hiiginpssu'milri be more welcome than another rate boost, the benefits of which are debatable since some contend that further rate increases win only make it more difficult for general industry since they will lift manufacturing costs at a t*™* when reductions are necessary.
In any event the 12.1% decline in traffic for the latest week against a year ago and the 5.8% decline from the preceding week provided a poor background against which to maintain stability marketwise and offerings increased with the decline.
• • •
STEEL—
Reports from Pittsburgh and Chicago steel markets suggest that operations are holding steady this week and at the latter point it is possible there will be slight improvement If so. it would be the first upturn m 15 weeks at that centre. Youngstown operations, however, have been lowered a little and consequently it is difficult to see on the basis of these returns much change in the national average.
Wall Street would be satisfied to see steel operations hold at these levels until the year-end for such a performance at least would represent improvement over the steady shrinkage which have occurred from week to week and which have carried the operations down beiow all expectations. A steadier performance up to the Christmas holidays might pave the way for improvement after the turn of the year.
• • *
COPPER FABRICATORS---------
Earnings outlook for copper fabricators is complicated by the fact that some year-end adjustments may be necessary to allow for the decline in inventory values These compameg have had excellent reports up to the final quarter of this year and until recently it was assumed that there would be nothing m the final quarter to necessitate any revision tn earnings possibilities.
Nevertheless the impression is that these companies have built up sufficient •‘fat” in the way of earnings performance during the first nine months to assure reasonably good reports for the full year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.