Purely Gossip
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 22, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Street was heartened by a substantial Saturday's volume United up with advancing’ prices although few believed the move wn^ anything but a technical correction of Friday's expansive decline. Some new* lows, Included a brand new low for the year for 17. S. Steel wer® recorded shortly after the opening. But after the first fifteen minutes of weakness which was pretty general, prices started to rally and closed at their best.
Day to day traders were the most active and there was some tax switching outside of which there was not much commission business. The business picture was regarded as about as bad as it could be, in fact the Street felt that before the end of the month it looked as if the low point of activity in many industries would be registered in the current recession.
♦ * •
Heard On The Street—
At this juncture. Wall Street regards as rather pathetic the eagerness with which many traders watch and wait for every bit of comfort they can get nut of happenings in Washington • • • street believes that by the time the President receives his report on the cost of living it will have materially dropped as a corollary of the break in commodity and other prices • • • There was little or no business done with foreigners Saturday although Wall Street had anticipated that some selling might occur from London as a result of our weakness Friday * * • Quite a demand for some of the lower priced utility shares reported * • • Considerable short covering reported in connection with Saturday’s advance and Street in its current frame of mind thought the advance was technical rather than having any substantial base • • * Notable that heavy industry shares were among the strongest Issues in the rally • • • Air Reduction continues to show considerable resistance to the decline • • • Both domestic and foreign buyers of North American reported last week.
Market Still
Although through the	..	_____
ists are still talking of the present stock market situation as a test of the lows for last month because many stocks have not sold at the lows of the October smash. The Street, however, feels that the stock market has pretty well shown that at least in some instances stock market prices were behind the drastic slowing down in many industries. Street feels that there can be little important resistance, except where equities are obviously on the bargain trial situation.	**
in Test Stage—
the industrial averages broke October 18 lows last week chart-
devastating gaps which Exchange administration prevents today.
• • •
Steel Operations—
Street sees a continuation of a decline In steel operations for the Industry as a whole when the Institute’s figures are made public today for several of the leading steel centres, including Pittsburgh and Chicago are reporting lower operations for coming week.
—The broad Street gossip

A Negative Hop&—
“There is perhaps only one silver lining to both the financial and business outlook at this time and that is the widespread bearishness on securities and opaque perspective on business everybody has” said a leading corporation official.
* • •
Thin Markets—
One leading trader In suggesting that the gossip of “thin** markets had been overdone, pointed to the fact that when bear markets of past years had really gotten underway there was little pool or organized support at various periods and that often enough it took considerable “whipping** up by the Important banking interests in the Street to make insiders support their stocks. Furthermore, there were always a strong group of bears who hammered their favorites unmercifully. This trader pointed out that looking over the gyrations of some past bear markets our current decline has been comparatively orderly and although brokers had declared it had been difficult to sen stocks owing to lack of bids at times, he said that that had always been the case in bear markets except that in the past sales had often been made with
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.