Purely Gossip--
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 20, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
whnra than ft WOU1& COSt "to reproduce tile COIH-pacy's fabricating plants, smelters, refineries, concentrating plants, leaching plants, railroads and open up the various mines at the capacity of which they are now capable. It Is estimated from these sources that to reproduce the equipment and open up ore bodies at present scale would cost at least 550 a share. Anaconda Copper, it is pointed out, can produce copper at as low a price as most of the major producing companies in the world. Incidentally the 550 price mentioned above includes nothing for the valuation of ore bodies or for going value of the organization. The life of Anaconda and subsidiaries ore bodies ranges upward of a quarter of a century with a number for longer periods. In regard to possibility of a reduction in the price of domestic copper there are various ideas. Some in the Street believe it is nearby while many in the trade say that this is merely a test of the price and that it is hardly likely that a reduction from the 14-cent level will be considered until later in the fall if the situation demands it.	:
• • •
Options—
Much shopping for puts is reported by some Interests which suggests that there is a growing feeling among traders that the decline has reached a point where a position on the short side is getting more dangerous so that bears desire to limit their losses.
—the bboad street gossip
A number of factors were under discussion in the Street in regard to Saturday's decline. These included the President’s remarks orient pressing New Deal legislation, sharp decline in Pittsburgh steel operations ana tne reports or selling of our stocks by London and Amsterdam. The selling from the first named place iB understood to be speculative and necessitous growing out of the forthcoming settlement, and from Holland it is regarded as part of present stock market picture there.
Selling here is still scattered and brokers said that while some of the declines Saturday were sharp the movement was orderly and there was a sustained demand for a number of securities in certain groups, notably motors which helped to take care of offerings. For instance. General Motors was taken in generous totals at 50 and its break through that price represents a decline of but 2 points from prices obtaining first day or two of current month.
Heard on the Street—
Street is distinctly encouraged with the labor situation; in fact some traders are more pleased with it than tney nave been for a year • » • There was less pressure on the rails although they were down. Brokers interested say that the sharp declines in carrier equities have gone a long way to discount any untoward news in wages and rates and it still remains to be seen to what extent these two situations will produce unpleasing news • • • Traders say resistance of can shares in the decline, particularly American Can, suggests that the long period of liquidation which the shares went through before the current stock market break got fully under way apparently is cleaned up.
Anaconda—
Those Interested point out that at $43 a
share. Anaconda is selling at a lower price-per
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.