Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 11, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
RLarket Diary
mwxy wnewai....... flme cnon«y> 90 4*ya..... Aeeepf nn—, 90 4*ys.....-OcmmerctaJ paper......... Fnutca, mMrit ........
Sterltac. cable* . ......... New York book rote...... FcofTu Spttena ratio ......
Ucppar, «I<XDe«Uc......... .
Ltcod. Now SoHc.......... Silver. Now Yerfc. ........ Steel acmp	Na. 1)..
Ctac. Boot St. L>*afe -
Putureos
Cof/ee, Rio. December .... Corn, December ...........
Cotton, December ........ Hide** December .......... Onto. December . .........
Rebber. December ........ N1W. row. December .........
Suror. nw. No. s. March.. Tin, Standard. December. . Wheat, December ...........
Wool topo^ December........
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Failure of the market to give a better rallying exhibition brought in a new wave of selling Friday. Initial prices showed little change over the previous close, but the market began to slip off again near the end of the first hour. Selling gathered increasing momentum and volume picked up to 2,320,000 shares, the most active day for the current declining phase.
Industrials used in the averages broke more than eight points, rails were down nearly three points and utilities more than'm point, carrying the three groups deeper into new low territory. Selling was general, affecting all the leading groups and gathering Intensity until tbe fourth hour when there was a brief respite. The tape which had been running behind floor transactions caught up and prices recovered fractions to a point. But in the last hour they melted away again to around the day’s worst levels. Westinghouse Electric, Chrysler, Johns Manville, Union Pacific, Allied Chemical and other high calibre Issues lost heavily as bids were scarce.
Rails continued to meet volume offerings despite the pounding they have received throughout the past month.
Bonds were lower and commodities gave some ground.
D. S. STEEL—	'
Further reduction in shipments of U. S. Steel during August created an unfavorable impression and helped to depress the stock. Actually Shipments of the corporation have been in a downtrend since the spring, showing successive monthly declines as a result of diminishing backlogs. That situation "should have caused no surprise since it has been apparent month by month for tour months, but in its present mood the stock market has seized upon unfavorable straws and reacted to them.
It is estimated that as a result of lower shipments in the past two months and based on indications for this month U. S. Steel will show lower earnings than in the second quarter, though they will naturally compare favorably with the like quarter a year ago. On the bash of shipments. It is probable that the corporation’s earnings will approximate those of the first quarter, when $2.55 a share was reported as against the second quarter showing of $3.43 a share.
...
LONDON—
The London market was closed by the Um. our acute outbreak of liquidation developed. Selling was mostly ot domestic origin, but some selling came in from abroad from brokers operating in the unofficial market in London.
From the start of this latest selling phase. Europe has misconstrued the nature of the decline, believing it was a war scare that would quickly subside. European markets, in fact, have been relatively calm through the warscare, and foreign brokers and newspapers have expressed surprise at our weakness, apparently underestimating the Importance of our recent downward revision in earnings estimates for this year.
...
margins—
Government officials deny that serious consideration is being given to reduction in margin requirements, though they admit there is a demand in some quarters for such a reduction Such a decision is up to the Federal Reserve Board, which has sole power to fix regulations. However, the latter body acts in concert with the SEC on such matters and the latter is rep
resented to see no need for relaxation at this time.
In connection with the margin situation, it is well to realize that a majority of accounts are already being carried under the 55% requirements by virtue of tbe decline in prices. By mid-week about 60% of the accounts were restricted and the total must be over that level by now. This means that the original margin has been eaten into by price declines and there would be no point in further reducing margin requirements on those accounts since it would be bad policy in a weak market. If the request for margin reductions is based on the thought that new buyers would be attracted to make purchases by low margin accommodations, it seems a little far-fetched, for In a weak market it is the buyer making outright purchases who is tbe main support of the market and who usually does most to turn the tide. The thinly margined trader is of little real resistance at such a time.
...
FOREIGN LOAN ACCOMMODATION'S—
There have been numerous Inquiries about the margined status of foreign accounts dealing in American shares. Each European bourse has its own system of dealing in securities. In London there normally Is no margin requirement, speculators making private arrangements with brokers when they carry over securities from one fortnightly account to another, paying contango and brokerage commissions and any differences, but not necessarily putting up any marginal cover. To an American the London system might be -viewed at quite loose, but they have their own system of checks and balances. Earlier tins year banks and brokers became a little stricter in their requirements.
The current stock market account In London does not close until next Friday. Fortunately, the London stock market has been much steadier than our own and volume of speculation has been small. However, security markets are internationally-minded and our weakness probably will result in some careful checking into accounts which have been active In American shares.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.