Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 12, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
HOW THE1 STAND—
Since
__..Nov. 1
... 80
24
34
9
12
Additions
Wednesday
10
2
2
1
2
HIGH AND LOW PRICES— Wednesday on the New change two stocks made new’ highs and 17 made new lows "	‘
for the
York
year 1937.
Stock Ex-
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
The market responded Wednesday to overtures from Washington with a 6 point recovery in the industrial averages, a 1.95 upturn in the rails and a 1.52 rise in utilities. The tape fell behind as large blocks of stock changed hands. Volume for the session amounted to 1,920.000 shares. The bond market improved and commodity prices rushed ahead.
Opening prices were higher, leading issues showing gams or 1 to nearlv 3 points. American issues in London were higher before our opening. Trading became somewhat more cautious around midday and prices fluctuated in a narrow area. But there was no disposition to give up any important part of the earlier gains and prices worked steadily higher.
Utility issues were naturally more conspicuous than the rest, these issues responding vigorously to the President’s specific comments on this industry. Large amounts ot Columbia Gas, North American. Electric Power & Light, American Water Works anti Consolidated Edison changed hands at rising prices. In the last half hour this movement acquired greater momentum and utility prices were swept forward to the best levels in months
Shorts in Industrial lenders were obliged to cover at steadily higher prices.	’	’
Tj. S. Steel were up about 5 points. Chemical gained 8 points, du Pont 6^is and Johns Manville 5%. Gams of 2 to 3 points were commonplace in some of the lower priced and medium priced issues.
The railroad group gave a good account of Itself, with Atchison up 3% points, Great Northern by more than 3 points and New York Central up 1% points.
New Highs—
Int TAT For ct
New Lows—
Am Cryet e pt
Am Metal H%pl
Am Sm'tc pt Beat Cr pfww BloomU>s<i*ie
Wor PAM pr pf
ABA
G W. .
Devoe
Heine -	.. . .
Ileretaey Oioc. l^rii Ft Om pf. Mti Ku* pf
nf . .
Btd f&ve«t .
L'B A For 8 pf Uoi* L<e*f T pi Wmmhj Qtl pt Yole A rowni
be used, business increase
Bethlehem and
Allied
to the the
confer with utility tonic the market same time some of
■UTILITIES—
The President’s offer executives proved just needed at this stage. At
the utility men. whose opinion on the matter is important, were not inclined to jump at conclusions believing it better to wait until the matter could be gone into in some detail. There are many obscure points in connection with Washington’s proposal to the utility industry which would need clearing up and before any intelligent estimate of the consequences could be made there would have to be much discussion.
At the same time the market felt justified in accepting this news as an indication that Washington is making some effort to restore business confidence. This is much preferable to more large-scale pump priming activities which would only postpone the day of financial reckoning’for the government, and which would tend to keep private capital in hiding. What with brighter prospects for tux reform and this laLest bid fur business confidence the financial district’s spirits were lifted materially.
BUDGET—
News from Washington that the Administration program to check the current business recession will not be spectacular also suggests
that the right kind of medicine may Spectacular tactics might only upset planning further. Instead, a moderate in spending for the near term and a general
effort to revive private building operations appears to be the outline of the Washington plans at the moment
Naturallj* Wall Street and business generally is anxious to see what effect new plans may have on the condition of the budget. If federal spending Is held down to moderate proportions and grand schemes eliminated there may be less worry over the condition of the national budget. For in the final analysis much of the business uncertainty is due to the continued national deficits and while budget balancing is postponed business generally retains much of its uneasiness. To insure success of this latest overture to business the government might well adhere as closely as possible to budget balancing efforts.	.
POWTR PRODUCTION—
In moving ahead briskly the utility stocks ignored the less favorable power production figures which showed a further narrow’ing in the rate of gain over a year ago to 1.5 % against a 3.6% gain the week before. Power consumption has been somewhat more prompt in reflecting business recession than m 1930 when the figures held up well even after business had generally declined New England consumption showed a greater degree of recession than in the previous week. The Southern. Rocky Mountain and Pacific states made a better showing.
Utility .slimes undoubtedly were properly more considerate or conditions affecting their fundamental value than current power consumption figures for if Washington is really planning a truce these issues can bo exported to enjoy a higher market appraisal m relation to earnings. For some time the utility shares have been extremely conservative in their appraisal of earnings and dividends.
RERCENTAGE—
On a percentage basis the utility issues have provided dynamic swingB that cannot be matched by many of the higher priced industrial issues. At Wednesday’s close NJ or th American was up to 24 against the low of 14% reached in last month's setback. Columbia Gas was up to 10 is from 4%, Electric Power & Light 14% from 6% and American Water Works 14% from S The opportunity to double one’s capital within a month has been present in many of those issues. While the high priced industrial issues are the favorites for most of the traders, none of them give the percentage swings than have been present in the lower priced power issues.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.