Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 2, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
Abreast of
the Market
it has wiped plished since
out most of the. advance accom-July.
Street—
Market Diary
Laffax applied
Heard on the
Brokers interested look for switching from higher priced issues into lower priced stocks in coming weeks * • * Evening up is expected to be the order of the day beginning today as many are taking a long holiday over the Labor Day recess * • • The short interest is understood to have increased materially in,the last couple of sessions • • • Demand for puts has increased materially in the past week and they are often quoted at longer prices than calls • • • West was a fairly heavy seller of farm impleriicnt stocks * * • Some odd lot buying of American Telephone & Telegraph reported on the decline. Stockholders’ list is expected to be longer this year than in several years past, although not up to the highest figures which was through 700 -000 • • * Some brokers reported selling from European sources although not heavy offerings. There was a little selling from Paris and Amsterdam • * • Lots of gossip around of possibility of a cut in domestic copper prices but trade does not believe it is imminent.
BY ROBERT
Steady pressure was _ _ market Wednesday, resulting in sivc price losses ranging from two to nearly four points in most of the industrial leaders. There was no radical change in the news background to account for the setback, the movement apparently being a continuation of the trend of recent weeks. Failure of the market to show more aggressiveness in the rallying effort of the past few days helped to bring on additional liquidation. Volume picked up to 820,000 shares from the 500,000 shares of the day before.
Opening prices were lower, Tuesday’s late downturn in TJ. S. Steel and a few of the other leaders helping to bring in some overnight selling. Steel common thereafter gave ground steadily and there was a retreat from offerings all along the line, setting up a wide list of new lows for the year.
As a group, the rails suffered most since their losses carried them to new low levels for the year, to 4S.21 in the averages, a decline of 1.39 points. Industrials were more spectacular with a loss of 4.33 points on the day. Their final price of 173.08 left them some eight points above previous lows for this year.
Utilities lost 65-100 but remained above previous 1937 lows.
Bonds were under pressure while commodities were irregular.
the stock
to
rather exten-
constructive sign. However, a plunge through that level would compel a change in ideas concerning the basic trend of the market, under the Dow theory.
Attempts to guess the outcome of a test such as the present have frequently proved unfortunate and that is why over a period of years followers of the Dow theory have concluded that It pays to be patient and await a verdict from the market itself through confirmation by both averages. Those who have held stocks up to this point, therefore, have had no reason up to now to liquidate.
Electric Output-
After two successive weeks with electric output holding above previously unprecedented record peaks of 2,300.000,000 kwh., power, production last week retreated into what some observers consider the two previous of rain brought using electricty tion to new high	.
ments failed to keep step with those uses Last week, however,-with noticeable letdown In refrigeration and irrigation needs, there was a pick-up in consumption in the more highly industrialized sections of the country: New England, Middle Atlantic, and Central Industrial states.
to be more normal levels. In weeks, extreme heat and lack demand for power by those for irrigation and refrigeramarks, but industrial require-
VEEK-END TRAVEL—
Railroads are anticipating heavy passenger ‘ traffic over the Labor Day week-end. New York Centra] expects an increase of 5% to 10% over last year although because of lateness of the holiday many vacationists have returned home. Despite this Central expects to operate 178 trains between Friday and Tuesday, inclusive. Many extra trains will be put in service due to reservations already made.
WORLD STEEL OUTPUT—
World Steel making capacity haa been expanding and spreading eastward in recent years, according to a comprehensive survey by the National City Bank. While western Europe and North America have shown a sharp recovery in production since 1929. the eastern countries, particularly Asiatic countries, have made remarkable progress. The Asiatic countries, exclusive of new steel centers in Siberia, made 80% more steel than in 1929. Nationalistic tendencies have encouraged this tendency. In 1936 about 24% of the world steel output came from “newer” steel making countries compared with only 13% in 1929.
In 1936 the Soviet Union turned out steel al the equivalent of 325% of the 1929 rate, Japan 220%, British India 110%, Manchukuo and Korea 183%, Danubian countries 117%, Mexico and Brazil 124%, Australia and South Africa 190%. The United States regained 85% of th? 1929 production in 1936, Germany and Saar 105%, Great Britain 121%, Sweden 141% and Austria and Czechoslovakia 70%
Establishment of new steel centers outside North American and western Europe has caused many changes in international steel trade. Machine and small steel shops in South Africa, Australia, Mexico, Chile, Brazil, Argentina and even China are now able, with protection of tariffs, to supply local markets with a variety of home manufactured products; but as their domestic output is still too small for their requirements they continue to import steel and iron, and machine tools and machinery.
STEEL WAGES—
Inquiry among steel men reveals no indication that any change in the present wage structure is likely to be given any the near future. There were Street recently that another proposal would be on the steel before the end of the year.
Within the past ten months two substantial wage increases have been put into effect which amounted to a total of 34%, lifting the average hourly wage in the industry from 65 cents an hour to	‘ *
ings in U. S. months, very top rank of earnings among industries in this country.
Wage advances last Spring were accompanied by higher prices which did not fully cover higher costs incident to increased wages and rapidly advancing prices for materials. In view of the current lull in new buying of steel, the present time is not regarded by producers as propitious for any further increase in or in prices of steel.
Contracts which several of panics have with the C. I. O. ruary.
consideration in reports In Wall wage advance industry’s hands
n early 87 cents. Average weekly earn-the steel Industry, as shown by the Department of Labor during recent have averaged $36, which wage is the
the steel expire in
costs
com-
Fcb-
PENNSYLVANIA CRUDE— Reduction of 22 cents to 27 in Pennsylvania crude oil reflects a local situation in that area that is not likely to spread to other oil producing areas in the United States. For some time now the Pennsylvania field has been over-producing with the result that stocks have been going into storage. Moreover, runs to refineries in that area have been curtailed by about 8,000 barrels a day in anticipation of slower winter demands. At its present price Pennsylvania crude still shows a higher increase in the past year than the average for all other fields in the country.
cents a barrel
Purely Gossip —
CHARTISTS—
Chartists were rather disturbed to see the rails penetrate by a substantial margin their recent low levels. It was hoped for a time that the penetration of the 50.17 level was a false move that might quickly be nullified but yesterday’s performance dispelled that view. At the same time followers of the Dow theory will not become discouraged until industrials decisively penetrate the 165.51 level, the previous low made in June. The industrials are still above that level by a substantial margin. Should liquidation dry up and activity taper off as that level is approached, it would be considered a
Although* volume was not large, selling was certainly more widespread yesterday. Brokers said that there was jrpore liquidation than mere day-to-day traders’ selling. Whereas a few weeks back one heard of prospective Impetus to trade in the early Fall, today there is largely gossip of an extended lull in many major Lines The Street believes that whereas the first thought was premature, the second Is probably exaggerated. Of course in the narrow markets existing today, the throwing over of a comparatively light total of shares makes its mark on the list. In the case of the industrials
Steel—
It is a long while since the Street was in such a confused state of mind in regard to the immediate outlook for the steel trade and doubtless this is a factor in making for selling of the steel stocks whenever they poke their heads up Trade reports, too, arc mixed. Street feels that while the backlogs are disappearing rapidly and the demand tor heavy steel Lb tapering off that this is partly seasonal and partly due to domestic and foreign uncertainties. At the same time, there are many who believe that the steel business has lots of snapback in it before the close of the year and that if the operations do suffer a reduction of or so there is a good profit in it.
even 10%
London on the Fence—
Private advices from London do not gest either any Immediate heavy buying selling of our securities A letter fiom financial London to a New York correspondent says “we are intensely worried over the Far Eastern situation not only from a question of investment, but because it may disrupt the great Eastern trade of the British Empire. This anxiety Is likely to retard any heavy investment of funds in Ajnencan
and home shares.”
sug-or
of America trading on the and quite firm. Advance
Molybdenum—
Molybdenum Corp. Curb has been active in stock is apparently based on the tight tung-
sten situation. Molybdenum Corp is regarded as largest tungsten producer in the V. 3., though no definite figures on its reserves, etc., are available. If the Chinese embargo on tungsten ore continues Molybdenum naturally should benefit and the higher prices which bulls believe will ensue might add to income.
"Tax” Dividends
Some enthusiasts are revising ideas of what the so-called ”tax” dividends will produce m the coming months before th,e end of the year. At the same time, except in certain industries, earnmgs apparently are being maintained and unless unforeseen losses ensue in the last quarter the Street feels. that the dividend flood will be quite as good, if not larger than last year’s total.
—The broad street Gossip
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.