Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 4, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 19
HOW THEY STAND—
Since Additions
Increased Earnings:
Industrials .........
Rails ...................
Utilities................
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials........... -
‘ Rails .....................
Utilities ...............
Nov. 1 20 *7	yesterday 12 X
30	9
1	1
4	3
Stock prices faded with little show of resistance Wednesday- There were only 1,740,000 shares turned over but this was sufficient to depress the industrial averages 5.80 points, rails 1.51 points and utilities SS-100.
The market’s action puzzled some brokers who had been inclined to look for more stability but others were not surprised, pointing out that much of the rally of the preceding week had been at the expense of short covering and that with, this buying power removed or weakened there was little support for moderate offerings. Wall Street also was leas inclined to believe that Washington would do anything of a startling nature to reverse the trend of prices believing tnat almost everything except a re-approachment of the viewpoint toward business had already been done.
With this rather discouraged attitude the market had little background to sustain the upturn of a week ago. Prices eased from the opening and continued to lose ground as the session progressed. Stock bought for a more extensive rally was offered for sale and trading favorites such as Chrysler, Steel common, Westinghouse Electric and General Motors suffered losses of more than two to about five points.
Some issues that arc not strictly trading favorites, but more of an investment calibre, were pronounced losers. Chemicals sagged rather noticeably and co did oils. Loew’s was quite heavy, more so than in the recent selling phases. Coppers, mail order issues, rails and utilities rounded out the picture of a generally retreating stock market. Bond prices also receded
*	• V
COMMODITIES—
Still discouraging to those market followers who have been trying to feel for the bottom of this move is the behavior of commodities. Monday’s softness in raw material prices served as
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—
Wednesday on the New York _Stock Ex-ere	mad* r	high and 14 made
news lows for the year 1937.
New High—
du Font pf.
New Lows—■
Am Mcn’t* pf csrtts Fut> ef Deer* a Co »e* KbPSSM ptww Fed LOTr P«
Flreatene of Mere a Min T tt r air aruicc Fbelpe Dodse.
Simms ret*.. , a gears O
D » GTjsem.
WorPAM tnrprp TsU Trk pf
a sort of preview to the more extended declines of yesterday. In fact, even on Tuesday when the stock market was closed there was a heavier tone in those commodity markets that were open for business. Yesterday rubber, hides and grains were under heavy pressure and some new lows were set up in many options. Coffee was another weak feature.
AUTO SHOW —
The falling off in attendance at this year’s auto show is attributed by exhibitors to a variety of influences. Some contend that political activities in New York during the show week helped to keep the public away. Others believe that many of the new models were on the street or in local dealers' showrooms weeks before the show opened and this took the edge off introduction of now models. Many distributors were satisfied with their sales showing during the week. From a sales standpoint, the shows scheduled to start soon outside the heart of New York City will be watched closely for these shows are more significant of the sales trend. In recent years, some exhibitors point out, the Grand Central Palace exhibit has served more as a showroom for the new models and the sales test comes immediately thereafter.
• • •
TAXES—
Intimations from Washington that the Treasury Department’s recommendations for a now tax program do not include any major retaxation of the undistributed profits tax despite widespread business demands for relief from this levy, did not help the market yesterday. Secretary Morgenthau and Undersecretary Magill, back in Washington after a week-end with President Roosevelt, were reported to be keeping the tax recommendations a closely
guarded secret but their attitude against major changes in that tax are well known and apparently opinions have not changed. This is also said to be the viewpoint of the White House on this matter.
GOLD STOCKS—
Further strength in gold stocks, which have been pushing forward steadily in recent sessions, developed yesterday. The latest strength was accompanied by rumors which originated here weeks ago, and which have now filtered Into print in Europe, to the effect that the price of gold will be raised. However, no such explanation is necessary since the price declines and unemployment which accompany receding business are of direct help to gold companies. The former reduce-costs of materials and machinery while lessened employment Ln business generally obviates wage increases. In fact, comptition from the unemployed, couplea	tne
lower cost of living, could even bring a lowering In wage costs for the gold mining companies eventually. So long as the gold Drice - is held firm tbe tendency is for operating costs to narrow and profits to increase. In the matter of taxes, however, gold mining companies run the same risk of eventual Increase as other industries.
• • •
POWER OUTPUT—
Electric power consumption has begun to bow more noticeably to lessened industrial activity. Until recently power figures were giv* Ing a good account of themselves.
The New England district in the past w-ek shewed the first decline under the like week a year ago since April, 1935 In fact, it was the first time since July, 1935 that any of the major districts has fallen under the preceding year. The Middle Atlantic and Central Industrial sections, which contribute 25% and 29% respectively to the total power consumption figure, have been showing narrower gains over a year ago. Consumption for the week ended October 30 was 3.6% over the week ended October 33. 1936. against a 5.3% increase in the immediately preceding weeks.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.