Abreast of the Market: Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 29, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Market Diary
OU1 wr.i rtwwBJ ............
Ttn» oMMey. 90	.
4ectp«Mff, »o dan...........
Cvaaunerctat *«per..........
1-nuM*. rabig*..............
Kt^rttar. cable*
New Yorlc bank rate Rrocrv* Mytena ratio
Capper, demeatlc . . ... .. Lead.	York............
tMlww. New York.............
merl wrap. Fttta. *<•. 1.
ZUm*. EL»m st. L**l*........
Fbtarr*:
Coffee. iUo. Maj............
Cora. May ~	. ..... ,
< often. May .... ..... HMr*. Jnae .........	....	.
Oat*. Ma> . .. . .. ... . Rubber. May ................
M'k May .............
**unr. raw. No. 3.	May	.
Tin. Standard. May	.	.
"t»*at. M»v ...	.
IV «*ol top*. May ..	.
»Tar*day	.
1937	its*
1^.	
ll*<i	
V-® f, «*>	
	
.0339 ft	.O4S7r«
4.9*4*	4.91 *
?*.*%	
letfc-u	114*
4.75	4-90
44*,	451*,
13.50-14.00	19.25-14-75
5.00	S.4S-6.M
4.13	7.13
	104 Vm
R.33	12.25
IO.SI	15.20
SO*.	50 vw
15.04	22.20
I 43'~	1.99
2.SO	2.99
41.25	St.SO
914*	13444*
93.0	111.0
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Liquidation picked up momentum in Tuesday’s session, carrving "scores of issues to new low ground for the year. Rails used in the Dow-Jones averages dropped to a new 1937 low at 28.91 for a loss of 1-58 points. Indus
trials were down 4.52 points at 118.93 and utilities dropped 59-100 to 19.97. Volume expanded to 2.380.000 shares and the tape lagged behind floor fr.r«rr:’‘»h at times. On the previous day 1.360 (H)() xh.t^es were turned over.
Wall Street was worried over the behavior of the market the day before and It was still discussing the speech ol Assistant Attorney General Jackson, accepting it as tangible evidence that the Administration was no longer greatly interested in cooperating with business. Coupled with the uninspiring trade news, and the absence of any “feel” of the outlook for 1938, the market was placed in a defensive position. absorbing selling on a scale downward.
Opening levels showed losses of fractions to a point and the first hour or so of trading passed without any material extension of losses. Around midday, however, the volume ot offerings increased and prices gave way abruptly. Steels, motors, electrical equipments, mail order issues, coppers and numerous specialties broke 2 to around 4 points.
Public utility issues were depressed, and there was a fair volume of offerings in this
department. Baltimore & Ohio. New York Central and other speculative rails were carried down.
Selling spread to commodity markets, with grains, hides and rubber depressed. Bonds were generally easier, rails being particularly hard mt	'
MOTORS—
Motor shares were affected by the comments of William S- Knudsen, president of General Motors Corp., who gave & rather pessimistic account of the automotive outlook for the near term. So far as the automobile industry Is concerned there is still an inventory situation to be corrected, with both used and new cars substantially in excess of a year ago and buying power frozen up. Wall Street had become a little optimistic recently on reports that Inventories in many lines had been largely worked off. but so far as the automobile situation is concerned the problem remains, necessitating reduced employment and production.
Working off an automobile Inventory is a little different from working off an inventory of men’s clothing, or any of the other so-called necessities, which usually can be moved at a price. The automobile purchase can be postponed for a considerable period if the public is without funds or feels it cannot afford a new car. Price cutting, according to Mr .Knudsen, probably would be of little assistance, nor
would it help to bring out a very cheap car for the public is not buying used cars which have been priced attractively.
BRICE CUTTING—
Elsewhere in industry, or outside the auto----mobile trade, price cuttings is being resorted to on a widening front in an attempt to stimulate the demand for goods. Pulp for use in paper making has been reduced, the fourth quarter 1937 advance in price being washed out to pave the way for better business after the start ot the year. Reductions amount to from 12 to 14%. Soap prices have been lowered 5% to 7*£%, this step being initiated by Procter & Gamble, the largest factor In the business. Hosiery prices also are being brought down, reductions ranging from 15 cents a dozen higher- priced styles to 50 cents a dozen cheaper grades.
Some observers expect steel prices to lowered when demand opens up. Thus far, there j has been little test of the price structure for 1 demand is negligible, but any quantity buyer when he puts in an appearance is expected to demand and receive some concession in price from the levels that were in force before steel business collapsed.
on on
be
WAGES----
If wages can be brought down, the adjustments needed to restore sales and profitable operations again might be completed quickly. However, there are still some hurdles to be faced in this connection. Richard T. Franken-steen. U A. W. vice president, contended yesterday that the union would resist wage reductions and he denied reductions had already been put into effect. This comment is not entirely ' in agreement with known conditions in some lines where union leaders and workers themselves have recognized that employment at a somewhat reduced basic rate of pay is preferable to loss of the job.
The trouble is that certain union leaders are still looking for guarantees on employment before accepting wage adjustments, failing to recognize that both labor and the employer must, to a certain extent, gamble on producing better demand and employment through price. and wage adjustments Lowering prices and ( Please turn to paac 5, column 4	'
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Coutirmcd fr&m Pag9 Thfafoew wages have always brought in demand eventual" ly, but negotiating wage contracts in recent years hM developed into a situation where one class of workers is fearful of losing an advantage to another and maladjustments are growing rather than	tubing; with lay-offs
taking the place of wage cuts.
• * •
YE.*E-END MAEKETS—
A good deal of the stock that has come out upon the market recently has been from traders who have sustained losses for putting too much faith in the traditional year-end upturn^in stock prices. A good deal of statistical evidence has been presented to show that from mid-December until shortly after the turn of the year stock prices generally work forward. The strength usually has come in the last week of the year and presumably relaxation of tax selling has helped to provide an uplift.
However, many traders have recognized that the background for such buying this year is rather unsubstantial, despite the weight of statistical evidence to sustain IL Tax selling in considerable volume has been present this year, but repurchases have been lagging and this stamps the selling with more of the character of outright liquidation. With business men making few predictions of a favorable nature for the first quarter of 1938. and the government itself giving reform preference over strictly recovery efforts, there has been little incentive for hastening repurchases.
• • .•
CHARTISTS—
The break in the rail average to new low levels for the year has worried chart followers However, the industrial average still retains a margin of several points above its November lows and the bearish implications are not conclusive. Volume indications, on the other hand, are on the bearish side and after several months of inconclusive backing and filling, liquidation again appears to have the upper hand. While the industrial averages remain above their November lows, nevertheless, there remains the possibility that this move may be deceptive.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.