Abreast of the Market: Abreast of the <span class="hit">Market</span> By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 20, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 17
BY ROBERT LiAFFXN
In the biggest day’s trading in four years, with volume topping seven million shares, the stock market, measured by the averages, managed to hold its own and showed only slight changes on the day. Industrials finished moderately better while rails and utilities were a shade easier.
There was a heavy volume of offerings at the start of trading and prices bowed under the
weight of this pressure. There was difficulty in arranging opening prices on many issues and some of the initial transactions on these issues did not appear on the tape until hours after the official opening time.
Price movements were extremely volatile and with, the tape running more than 20 minutes behind floor transactions in the early afternoon the trading machinery was put to a severe test. In fact, it was the first powerful test to which an SEC regulated market has been put. Never
theless. blds came Into the list in substantial volume and were sufficient to turn the tide in the late trading when prices were swept 4 to 12 points above the extreme lows.
International Harvester, which touched a low of 63. closed at 75 for a net gain of more than a half dozen points. Bethlehem was carried up from 41% to 48% where It was slightly lower on the day. Steel common rallied from 54% to 62%. General Electric had a net gain of 4 points. Extreme fluctuations of this kind ran through the entire list. Nash Kelvlnator was a feature of the low priced Issues dropping to an opening price of 5 and jumping promptly to 10.
Oils grave a good account of themselves and ‘	Please Turn to Page Thirteen
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
some sizable gains were recorded by Standard or New Jersey, Texas Corp, and a few others. Motors and motor accessories were heavily sold in the morning but they rallied with the rest.
The bond market finished substantially lower, the afternoon recovery being insufficient to efface earlier losses. Commodities were eratic, suffering further setbacks in the morning, but rallying, irregularly later.
- ' • * • INSTITOTIONAL buying_______
Several of the investment companion one big foundation- are reported to have been among the buyers in the market this week. Investment companies as a general ro's rave, not had any great amount of uurchasin^ -wer for most of them were liberally invested ° - the start of the decline. However, liquidation in tile early part of September added somewnat to cash reserves and meanwhile the depreciation in market values has been extensive enough to invite reinvestment of those funds. In any event, yesterday's decline in the market, considering the volume of transactions, was not large, indicating that stronger support was coming from some source. In_ September, for instance, the market on a few occasions lost seven to’eight points in a single day on volume of trading of around 2.500,000 shares. On Monday, of this week, the industrial averages lost more than 10 points on 3,200.000 shares. Yesterday’s loss in relation to the volume therefore indicated stiffer resistance.
. • • •
FOREIGN ACCUMULATION________
Official figures on foreign holdings of U. S. Steel common refute the contention that there has been any extensive amount of liquidation from abroad on balance. The big steel company Is the only one that reports regularly changes m foreign investment holdings of that stock and the figures usually are a reliable indication of the trend of foreign operations generally, for Steel common is a strong European favorite.
In the quarter ended September 30, England was a buyer on balance of 67,275 shares of IT. S. Steel common, accounting for the bulk of the total increase of 70,331 shares held abroad in that . pepriod. Despite the distress selling from London during September settlement periods_
selling which came from speculators with impaired margins—there was more than an offsetting amount of investment absorption for England’s account.
• • *
percentage—
industrial averages have lost close to 3o% since the mid-August highs and thia in itself, regardless of other considerations, offers a certain amount of attraction to those who play percentages. Even in the severe hen-y market of 1929 to 1932 declining phases hardly m-n much more than that before a strong rallying movement set in. It is important to remember too that the 1929 decline started from levels about twice as high as the current one started from and consequently it had a great deal more momentum r
,,'rhis is 11X0 way intermediate declines and rallies progressed expressed in percentages and using the Dow-Jones industrial averages. Figures have been compiled by G. M.-P. Murphy
Date Sept. April Sept. ’ Feb. . June : Nov. Mar.
Percentage Decline
.	47.9
. 26 0 .	34.5
.	37.4
.	44.9
.	39.0
.	53.6
Percentage Recovered
49.5
36.3
40.3
48.5 43.0 38 5
Bull Mkt. Began
• Began 3,-----
17.
10, 24, 27, 9. 8,
BROAD DECLINES—
Many stocks arc down much more than the averages, losses of 50% and more being commonplace in specialties which do not enjoy a -°ad market. This is the usual experience in ™arkels- While some of these specialties maj offer opportunities of greater-than-averagc lied^h’at^S On -any recovery- it must be realized that there ls a certain amount of risk in “‘.®™pUngr to capitalize on a rally by selecting extreme speculations. Of course, if a bull market is resumed immediately, specialties may show tremendous appreciation in value. However. it often happens that the specialty issue that is a pronounced public favorite in one bul. market is not much of a factor in another. Some-program that caught the °tf thC public tun“ out unfortun-may get into financial difficulties before business recovery sets in.
For purposes of adhering strictly to the performance of "the averages" therefore it is ranc VflT tO keCp “m“‘t“=nts
t?ose ave5ases. selecting strong com-nanies that are i»o-a«™_.	6
respective
1929
1930
1930
1931 1931.
1931.
1932.
panies that are leaders established fields.
in
* • *
HOW THEY STAND___ * *
Increased Earnings:
Industrials .....
Ralls.......
Utilities .
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials......
Ralls .	.. ’ ’ *
Utilities.........
1
Additions Yesterday 14
1
Since October . 66 . 11 .	25
..	30
.	30
. 12
5
2
1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.