Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 7, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
BY ROBERT LAFFAJC
Week-end developments brought a marked change in market psychology and Wall Street enjoyed its own, it belated. Independence Day celebration. Intimations that the Administration was swinging away from unqualified support of C. I. O. activities brought an uplift of 4.58 points in the Dow-Jones industrial averages and 1.66 points in the rail group. Utilities gained 84-100. Volume of trading expanded to 1,410,000 shares against Friday’s 840,000-share turnover.
There was an opening bulge in most of the industrial leaders in response to the higher market for international shares over the holiday period in London. Steel common was up about 3 points at the start and it widened its gains to nearly 6 points, closing at the top. Bethlehem, Republic, and a number of other leading steel issues also were in demand. Electrical equipments, motors, coppers, rubber tire and mail order shares were among some of the favorite groups.
Rail issues participated rather well, their gains on a percentage basis being about in line with some of the industrials. Atchison at 81, was up about 8 points from the recent low. New York Central, Southern Pacific, Northern Pacific and C. & O. were carried ahead sharply.
The utilities also moved ahead more spiritedly than in months. Public Service of New Jersey was at a new high for the move at 42.
extended their
^ond prices modifies were irregular.
STEE»—
Another bulge of 50 cents a ton in steel scrap at Pittsburgh, the second in less than a week, helped to support bulls on Steel common. Buoyancy in the scrap market offset a dip in operations for the current week to 67.3% against 75% in the previous week. The letdown reflected the holiday shutdowns and for the first time this year carried the national average down to around last year’s level.
Strength in scrap is considered a hopeful sign for it was this metal that first suggested weakness in the steel situation last Winter, prior to the general stock market letdown and the subsequent easing in steel activity.
\ • • •
POLITICAL FACTORS—
While the financial district appears to have overcome the acute uneasiness it has felt for some months over labor developments, it is also experiencing a little change in psychology regarding the legislative outlook. The compromise on the Supreme Court program is considered a constructive development, indicating that the Independent spirit in Congress has prevailed in a very important test. Still to be acted upon are wage and hour legislation and the proposal
to create regional TVA’s. Should Congress show disposition to modify these proposals. Street sentiment could be expected to show further improvement.
* * •
FARM EQUIPMENTS—	,
Two of the leading farm equipment stocks. Deere and International Harvester, have moved up close to their best levels for the year and both are favored by chartists who think they will be among the first to move into new high ground, assuming the current general market upswing proves to- be more than a flurry. *
All the reports from agricultural centers in recent weeks have indicated that farmers are spending much more money than they have m years and a good deal of it is going into mod-' ern harvesting machinery.
• • * -
NAVAL STORES—
Those who have followed naval store prod-ducts closely believe that the statistical position warrants continuation of a constructive outlook. Stocks of rosin at some of the principal southern markets are down to the lowest levels on record for this time of year and represent only about 40% of the supply on hand two years ago at this time.
Under the circumstances, higher levels for rosin are anticipated. As a leading factor in this busines, Newport Industries is expected to benefit.	'
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.