Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 21, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
on
a broad
Stocks swept forward Thursday front, with steels and coppers in the van. Demand was vigorous and gains ranging up to several points were recorded in many issues. Traders were encouraged by the resistance ihown by the list to selling in recent sessions, is well as by continued good earnings reports Ind dividend actions. Students of market action pointed to the movements of the rails in the recent weakness. Thrice since early April |he Dow Jones rail average has been pressed town to around 57 and as often has shown strong support at that level, with ability to pally from it.
The Dow Jones average of 30 leading industrial stocks advanced 3.84 points to 173.59. twenty rails recorded an average gain of 1.01 io 58.89 and twenty utilities of 0.52 '	~~ ~~
Fall River have closed and
it is feared
that
at there may be a fairly extensive movement in this direction.
to 27.56.
FUEL OILS—
General price advance of fuel >ils on the Pacific Coast follows rances in the East. Oil men suggest that home Owners who use fuel oil, as well as other con-lumers, will have to pay more in the future than in the past since consumption Is growing knd output is limited to the amount of residual bil left after cracking.
and Diesel similar ad-
WOOLWORTH—
Slackening In business does not appear to have spread to the chain stores. Woolworth’s sales so far in May, for intance, have shown a greater percentage gain than in the previous four months when volume was 8% ahead of last year. Woolworth, which has been under pressure recently, due probably to apprehensions regarding the effect upon its business of the Louisiana chain store tax-apprehensions which appear to have been exaggerated— snapped back sharply yesterday.
BREAT NORTHERN PREFERRED—
Activity in the steel industry, with heavy Shipments of ore since the Lake season opened, have increased traffic considerably on the Great bforthem lines, the road being an Important ore barrier. This is the principal reason for the strength shown by the stock recently. It made k, further new high yesterday.
CELANESE—
Crossing Industrial Rayon, which has been effected by a strike, Celanese yesterday swept forward into new high territory. Demand for rayon products is good and earning prospects tor this year are satisfactory.
HOME BUILDING—
It looks like a good home building year. All recent statistics indicate that demand for homes is on the upswing. The FHA estimates that 400,000 to 450,000 dwelling units will be •rected in 1937, against 270,000 last year. Building permits issued in New York in April were nearly 90% above April, 1936. Reflecting home construction activity, lumber consumption is at the highest level in seven years. '
COTTON MILL ACTIVITY—
Ths cotton textile industry-appears to have experienced a greater slackening in demand than most other lines of business. Some plants
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.