Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 29, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
IjAFFAN
BY ROBERT
The market was more of a two-sided afiair last week, with weakness predominating prior to the Thanksgiving holiday and strength thereafter. "While the early weakness set up a number of new lows for the year, carrying many issues below the worst prices or October 19, many others resisted this new decline and held stubbornly some part of the gains that took place in late October. 1	...
The fact that the Uow-Jones industrial averages and rail made new closing lows during the week may be merely an academic point since prices practically drifted to those lows on no great volume while utilities meanwhile clung to their hopes that something tangible would emerge from the conferences between utility executives and President Roosevelt.
Something fairly tangible did emerge from those meetings. At least, it was apparent at once from the President’s public remarks and those of two leaders of the utility Industry that each side recognized that a successful outcome was absolutely essential for everyone concerned, and vital from the standpoint of the interests of the country. Of course much ground remains to be covered and there was still a holdover of skepticism in parts of Wall Street over the predictions that large capital expenditures would start to flow now that the basis for an understanding has been reached. Nevertheless the conferences got off to a good start and while no one need be naive enough to suppose that large private utility expansion will take place at once in the face of a business depression there at least is reason to hope that the busfness depression itself, which has been to an unusually large extent psychological, can be Influenced enough to make capital expenditures necessary as well as desirable.
the general alm to promote re-
purpose despite _	_
covery, the past week witnessed more champions of recovery before reform. Members of Congress, recognizing that their political if not personal fortunes were at stake were ready to outbid each other in the beneficial things they were willing to do for industry and while there la still a gap between tbe willingness to do something and the doing, business at least had the satisfaction of seeing, with few exceptions, a Congress anxious to adopt constructive legislation or revision of old legislation. One Senator announced his intention to make amendments to the undistributed profits tax retroactive to apply to this year.
RECOVERY OR REVAMPING—
The psychological side of this particular depression hardly should be minimized. True enough there are mary concrete causes for it but at the moment none probably equals in importance the state of mind. The issue, bluntly, haa been stated in this fashion: That either capitalism takes hold here -or more government spending must result with consequences which are unpredictable. The issue has been widely recognized by private capita], causing it to suffer its worst attack of nervousness in modern history.
For all the dramatic inferences involved, the stock market (at least the rails and industrials, measured by the averages) slipped through October 19 lows and nothing happened. At least, the collapse in values, in security in all Its ramifications, did not eventuate and unusual calm and poise appeared toward the end of the week. Since it was the utilities that held above th/fr October lows it must be assumed that so frail and slender a matter as confidence or the lack of it plays a powerful part in shaping the market. Or perhaps the issue was so drastic that those holding stocks simply reasoned that at this stage they were as good or better than cash.
MARKET—
The Administration has a bigger job than convincing a few Industrial leaders of its sincerity of purpose regarding Its attitude toward business. If utilities are going to expand and modernize their plant they will have to come to the market for financing and find that market favorably disposed to accept the securities it has to offer For the first time, perhaps, the Administration realizes that not a few men but millions of investors arc the controlling factor in the market and that investors abroad as well as here have been critical of the unpredictable economic policies of the United States, accusing us of unsettling their markets as well as our own. Certainly the ramifications of success or failure here arc so broad as to make failure unthinkable. In any event there seems little reason to make a complete exchange of common stocks for cash for the worst contingency would probably bring on radical inflation and stocks representing equities in essential raw materials would come under the heading of "must" issues in financial portfolios.
BUSINESS—
Certainly there was little encouragement in the business news. Financial news was largely given over to accounts of plant closings, of reduced hours of work and layoffs More than seasonal recession In carloadings, declining retail sales and steel operations languishing in the neighborhood of 30% of capacity provided poor background for the market. An unusual feature of the week’s business news was the gain in engineering construction awards to $72,481,000 against $50,142,000 in the like week a year ago. It was the third highest week of the year for awards despite the Thanksgiving holiday. Another favorable feature of the news on construction was the report that farm equipment companies were enlarging capacity for manufacturing tractors.
• • •
CONGRESS—
Congress offered more basis for hope. Whereas at the start of this session there was little but confusion and a conflict of individual
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.