Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 1, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
in
sentiment
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
The inevitable improvement developed last week. A varietv of explanations for the better performance of the market might be given, but the plain technical facts seemed to warrant an upturn in prices after the drastic liquidation of the past several months. Jlon-dav’s pertormance gave a clear indication of the Sold-out condition of the market, for improvement set in on that day without aid of outside developments.
Thereafter, the market began to play upon the outside news, Thursday's upturn occurring cn the overnight announcement that margin rules had been eased for the longs and stiffened for the short accounts. As a fundamental matter, the lowering of marginal regulations for buyers of stock was of no great importance, but it provided strong psychological stimulant.
The ab-upt lifting of margins for the short ■account, however, provided positive buying power by forcing bears to run to cover. Perhaps the greatest blow to shorts was not the Federal Reserve ruling requiring 50% margins after November 1, for that ruling was not made retroactive.
The biggest blow to the shorts came on the following day. when the New York Stock Exchange issued a ruling that margin requirements on short transactions, effective on November 15. would be a minimum of 30% of the market value, or $5 a share, whichever is greater. This meant that shorts after November 13 would not enjoy the privilege of as little as 10 points' margin regardless of whether their commitments had been made during October. The whole effect, therefore, was to stampede the short account into a covering movement and this gave the market considerable momentum on the upside on Friday.
Market Improvement, therefore, largely was technical in character, since so much of the upturn developed from causes within the market
careful handling. Labor category and it is im-course of developments
require painstaking and conditions fall into this possible to estimate the in that field.
The time Is approaching when negotiations for new contracts with labor unions will have to be considered. This is a problem which is as puzzling to business managers as it is to outside observers in the investor class.
If labor realizes that its tactics threaten to upset the boat and if it is of a mind to consider economic conditions, as well as narrow personal issues—well and good. In this connection, the Administrr i is in a position to be generally helpful, buu - it misses or deliberately ignores that opportunity, labor and business relations may take on a new seriousness.
RAILROADS—
The railroad industry cannot be expected to be restored to health overnight, either. Some of the troubles here arc deep rooted and require more than a mere	rate increase to solve
their problems. However, such an increase would go a long way toward offsetting the higher costs of the past year, which, together with shrinking traffic, have put the railroad system back into the •’red” again.
Railway operations provided the first hint that serious market trouble was developing income as a	'
last year’s level the fact that
to the preceding year.
whole early gross
when net operating began to fall under this summer, despite business was superior	_	_
Obviously, the railroad situation is extremely sensitive	_	.	..	'	'
volume.
What
ter is an	_
activity to place them back on an earnings basis again. Failing to obtain that, the railway pynHi atp is one which cannot be temporized with for long.
to fluctuations in general business
the railroads need as a practical mat-immediate revival in general business
TAXES—
The best Washington advices indicate the chances are about ten to one that some modification of the system of corporate taxation will take place next” year The extent of th«t modification, however, is extremely difficult to estimate.
The opinion is that since this was a New Deal measure, it is unlikely that a complete chantry in front can be expected. That tax was designed not merely for reform purposes, but xlso to bring in additional revenue. Since a reat deal of emphasis lately has been placed _.pon budget balancing, it is not considered probable that any loss of revenue would be considered.
With regard to changes in capital-gains taxes, there has been nothing as yet except pure outside conjecture. The fact that Treasury officials and tax experts have been in deep consultation on tax matters and that they are preparing to submit reports to President Roosevelt indicates at least that there is some smoke where tax-reform possibilities arc concerned.
BUSINESS—
Withm the business structure, there has been nothing yet upon which to base market policies. Business is waiting upon Washington—and the stock market. Railroad traffic has shown a more than seasonal decline. Steel operations continue to taper.
In this connection, the more favorable performance of stocks late last week may be the beginning of a movement which will help to renew the flow of business enterprise. There is no doubt that a good many projects of a longterm or semi-long-term nature were abandoned temporarily when the storm descended upon Wall Street.
Many manufacturing companies report that specifications for delivery of goods m process of production were withheld pending clarification of the outlook. The market’s capacity for influencing business sentiment Is double-barreled and stronger tendencies undoubtedly could favorably influence business as quickly as it checked it.
MARKET—
The market has. reacted against the gener-allv prevailing gloom in the financial district Belatedly, second glances are betng turned to the favorable run of third-quarter earnings statements which appear particularly attractive as measured against recen‘ market levels.
The fourth quarter is something else again but it may not be as poor as many have anticipated. The steel companies, for instance, have been shipping business at a higher rate than they have been operating and estimates of earnings based purely on production schedules understate the possibilities.
Production has been cut drastically to obviate the possibility of piling up inventories and there may be more health in this development than appears at first blush, for, with any resumption of orders, schedules well might be lifted sharply again.
For the long term, there are uncertainties which remain to be solved and the methods of solution may do much to shape the future, but the market *	.......... *	“
mark by a the worst little things and yields.
shows plainly it has overshot the considerable margin in discounting possibilities and ignoring homely such as current earnings, dividends

LABOIt—
Some of the conditions which have retarded progress cannot be settled immediately and will
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.