Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 27, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
HOW THEY STASC
	Since	Additions
Increased Earaingwj	Nov. 1	yesterday
Industrials 		.	..	...	133	3
Rail, 		.... 11	
Utilities				59	4
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials	-	. . .	...	76	4
Rafis		....	32	
Utilities 		...	34	1
* •	•	
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—		
Friday on the New	York Stock	Exchange
one stock made a new high and 34 stocks made new lows for the year 1937.
New High—
Hercules Pw ne
New Lowi
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
A distinctly improved tone developed in financial markets Friday- Opening levels for stocks were higher and steady improvement developed as the- session progressed. Industrial averages finished with a gain of 4.62 points. Rails were up 1.33 points and utilities 1.13 points.
'While there was no evidence of a turn in the business news, the market took heart at the lack of heavy liquidation and prices found easier going on the upside. Gains of approximately a point were registered by leading issues at the opening. The London market was steady and this assisted the opening here. Steels, electrical equipments, chemicals, mail order shares and oils found offerings scarce and moved up on comparatively light buying. Many of the high grade industrials which had been suffering from persistent liquidation recently showed a decidedly better tone. Allied Chemical, du Font, Westinghouse Electric and Union Carbide were among the leading gainers.
Rails shares made good on the promise they gave in recent sessions when they moved down reluctantly with weakness in the industrial department. Prices for leading carrier issues gained a point to more than two points. Utilities also were higher, Consolidated Edison, Electric Power & Light, North American and -American Water Works rising briskly.
Bond prices showed general improvement and commodities recovered from early heaviness in some departments.
atratem *str lined KJd —
AlttM Btrs pl Am >otf pt
Atlas Powder.
A Co . . Peer J I pf.. OeluuM prpf OtoiT Molirbe Cot* r*lm pt. Cons E > T pf CrvcfMe SU pt
Cttdalo Pack*
Dpw Cbem.. . FlorsbefcOB A. Gea	.
RemUt Wxt pt Beralmy Oboe. Hershey ct pt. Kress A co. . Missies Corp. Motlxer L>otfe.
M * At* Krakr
Bitter Dental. Bsrewsytit 7pl Scott Pep is.
SbeU Co OU pf apleer Mr*... Starrett 1_ S.
8n» ou
Cato Leaf Tob Wilson	pt.
Johnson had reentered the market on the purchasing side encouraged those who are waten-ing commodity markets for signs of improvement. Endicott-Johnson was one of the first to curtail buying operations weeks ago. This had favorable implications concerning the inventory position of industrial companies, for the chances are that if one of the big manufacturing companies finds it necessary or expedient to replenish inventories there may be several others in a similar position, some of them waiting uncertainly until another company takes the lead.
Action of the grain market also gave a brighter aspect to the commodity markets, rallying from extensive losses in the morning to close with net gains for the day.
IMPROVEMENT—
Spontaneous nature of the upturn in stock prices yesterday was considered encouraging. Unlike some of recent rallies where swift short covering operations influenced momentary changes in trend, yesterday*® improvement appeared slow and deliberate and seemed to arise out of a strengthened technical position generally. Rails for several days have been showing some inclination to resist the downtrend in industrials and with utilities also showing greater firmness, the jnarket had worked itself into a position where a* more decisive and general movement appeared inevitable, with utilities and rails either following industrials downhill or giving way on the downside. While volume was not particularly heavy on the upturn, this also was considered not altogether unfavorable for it offered the promts^ of more lasting improvement.
• • « * CONGRESS—
Indications that Congress is veering away from uncertain and conflicting policies and seems anxious to act promptly to assist business were favorably received. Senator George, of Georgia, Democratic member of the Senate finance committee, was quoted as favoring a move to amend any tax revision program to make it applicable to 1937 corporate incomes if such revision does not contain a retroactive feature when it comes from the House. The White House, meanwhile, indicated it was willing to allow Congress to handle the tax matter as it sees fit.
- * • •
DIVIDENDS—
Possibility of retroactive action in amendments to the undistributed profits tax law may complicate the problems of management of corporations regarding year-end dividend policies. Psychologically, however, the move should be encouraging.
Some corporations that are hesitating before paying out most of their earnings in dividend* might be inclined to gamble on the reactro-active bill going through both houses. Several corporations have declared moderate dividends and have been Inclined to withhold the rest considering the possibility of paying a stiffer tax penalty in order to conserve working capital. Some considered it might be cheaper to pay an additional tax than to attempt financing in an unsuitable market. However, this hesitancy could undergo a swift change also if market conditions Improved over the next week or so, raising hopes that early 1938 financing prospects may not be so unfavorable as now assumed.
...
HIDES—
Reports In the hide market that Endicott-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.