Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 20, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 17
Abreast of the Market BY ROBERT LAFFAN
the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAX
Stock prices continued to retreat Tuesday but on very restricted activity. The turnover amounted to 570,000 shares and industrial issues lost 2.65 points, rails 0.30 points and utilities 0.54 points. Corfimoditics were somewhat softer and bonds eased further, with the exception of government issues which continued to display a firm tone.
Foreign markets resumed functioning after the extended shutdown over the holidays and London was a little higher while the Faris Bourse enjoyed exceptional strength. The latter market reflected greater faith in the new government, in its more conservative social tendencies and recognition of the possibility that inflationary actions had a better chance of taking hold once the reform aide of the program was eased.
Our own situation was less clear. There was a disposition to wait and see how the tax bill emerged from conference, and on technical ground alone there was some reason to expect an easier tendency following the uprush in prices since the start of the month. Some satisfaction was derived trom the fact that the volume of trading lightened with the reaction.
Chemical issues softened on the du Font earnings report for the first quarter, which affords a fair idea of what to expect from other companies in this field. Union Carbide, Allied Chemical and du Font were off 2*4 to 4 points Steels, motors, farm equipments and merchandising issues were easier. The aircraft group had a fairly steady tone during the morning, considering the weakness elsewhere, but prices eased, a bit here also.
Utilities were rather heavy and lost more ground percentagewise than rails. North American was quite heavy at times but finished a little up from the low, though it was off on the day.
BOW THEY STAND—	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	April 1	Yesterday
Industrials 			.. •	84	2
Rails 	.	..	. ..	15	1
Utilities 		...	54	1
Decreased Bantings: Industrials 	 .	...	155	17
Rails 	  .	. .	...	48	2
Utilities 		A A.	48	4
* « * NEW HIGHS AND LOWS— Tuesday, on the New York Stock		Exchange,
no stock made new high and seven stocks made
new lows, for the year 1938.
New Lows—
Am Wk r*.(. M Fur. <Mt e% PT. TM. w A .1 Col GSE p, A St. com Tob	rs. pt.
rub mpi njap,
ceding week, but the trend Is still at about the 40% level, according to Mr. Keller. On Chrysler’s performance, therefore, the automobile industry appears to be moving in a sidewise direction.
CARLOADINGS—
Some of the early carloadings figures coming to hand for last week offer the promise that traffic for the carriers as a whole may record distinct improvement. If other major roads show similar tendencies, there may be grounds for expecting a little better action on the part of rail shares. The coal movement appears to have picked up notably, and seasonal tendencies in industry are helping some of the roads hauling manufactured products.
SPENDING—
The more business and banking opinions are sampled, the more it becomes apparent that there is a distinct coolness to government spending as a means of promoting recovery. Coolness, perhaps, is a mild way of expressing It. There is one banking firm, for instance, that was becoming definitely encouraged over the political trend, but now that the spending program has been proposed it has lost whatever enthusiasm it had. In some quarters, oi course, the practical view is taken that liberal spending may heighten the short term outlook. However, even where sentiment might be described as "bullish.” it is recognized that any short term business activity resulting from spending would be at the expense of the long term outlook. The question, therefore, remains as to how genuine confidence can be built up when even bulls, basing their opinion on the spending possibilities, express doubts over tiie long term outlook. It is upon the Latter that investment sentiment is built and the short term is merely a speculator’s playground.
The American Institute of Fublic Opinion (Gallup poll) in its surveys has found that public opposition to large-scale government spending has been rising steadily, latest figures showing that only 21% of a cross section of voters in different states are in favor of increased •pending and that 79% favor helping business as the proper means of getting out of the depression. More concentration on changing the form and reducing the amount of taxation' undoubtedly would be much more appreciated by business and the country generally.
* ...
LENDING----
As the government’s stake in economic affairs expands, the more unsound become the lending ventures it is willing to undertake. Thus, it is now proposed to have the RFC lend money to manufacturers to carry inventories. Neither Republican nor Democratic administrations have been very successful attempting to guess at the proper price level for commodities and it is hardly surprising that there should be some misgiving on this account. There was the unfortunate farm board operation in grains in the last depression and there are the large indicated losses on cotton now in government warehouses which would seem to offer a warning to stay away from experiments of this nature. Jesse Jones himself likened the proposed inventory loans to those on commodities which “will necessarily require the inventories to be warehoused, or so segregated as to permit an enforceable lien, unless ot course the borrower is able to give other acceptable security." If the borrower has acceptable security it would appear that he has no need for government loan accommodations and If he is merely to borrow against the inventory itself he is likely to gamble on a price rise. Should the price rise fail to materialize, and losses ensue, the government would be in a position of having subsidized someone, producer or borrower, which is particularly surprising in view of the fact that it just turned its back on subsidies for railroads and implied that it was withdrawing from that kind of activity."
. ...
CHRYSLER—
Remarks of K. T. Keller, president of Chrysler Corp., at the annual meeting provide a good example of how current figures on rising motor sales should be Interpreted. During the first seven weeks of this year, sales were running at about 40% of normal and it was this performance that prompted directors to omit dividends. Since then sales have risen by an average at about 10% as compared with the pro-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.