Purely Gossip--: Purely Gossip
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 20, 1938; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 15	.	.
Purely Gossip—
■ On the largest: volume since October, 1987, the stock markets was .strong throughout yesterday's session with the industrial average in.'in^w high ground for the yean Large blocks of both industrials and rails changed hands and the buying was aggressive and sustained, with short intervals of profit taking which were taken in the market’s stride. Trade and corporate news was regarded as showing improvement.
Heard on the Street— ’ . ■	’
While there is considerable buying for "cash” for moderate long pull, which as a rule means some months, Wall Street continues to jget in and out qilickly, doing the former, of course, at higher levels each time * • * There was some short covering yesterday, particularly in Chrysler, but traders say that professional shorts are constantly putting out stocks on the bulges on the hope of catching a reaction of some sort one of . these ’days • * •"Glenn L. Martin was strong, responding to the good earnings, statement but.it did not attain a new high for the year despite its activity * • • Utilities were firm but neglected; Street reports that some traders are swtichiiig into these purely on the basis that they are "behind the market”. Consolidated Edison, Electric Bond & Share, Electric Power and Light and North American are among the favored "buys” by these traders * • * That many brokers continue in an exceedingly cautious frame of mind and impart this timidity to their clients is evidenced by the constant stream of profit-taking and switching going'forward • * *
t • •
Not As Bad As Expected—
Wall Street finds that so far as comparisons of second quarterly reports with last year are concerned no stock market notice is being taken of the poor showings in many cases. Furthermore, it is becoming increasingly evident that the slight improvement noted in some industries at end of June assisted to make for better earnings for the second quarter than for the first which is the comparison attracting the most attention. In this category du Pont is an example. Furthermore, many in the Street are surprised with the number of companies which
Pleofse turn to Page Twelve ■
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
. Continued from Page Fifteen—— operated in the black for the three months ended June 30 which had not been expected in view of the gloomy foreboding going the rounds of the financial district for some weeks past.
* * * ,
It. Hoe & Co.—
Both the “A" stock and first mortgage bonds of R. Hoe & Co., have been strong recently and the latter have risen over 10 points in short order. The “A” stock is traded in on the New York Curb. Proposed sale of the company’s English properties which shareholders are asked to ratify at a special meeting on August 17 will produce approximately $2,280,000. Consummation of the sale would provide needed working capital and it is expected that remaining portion would ,be utilized in readjustment of the company’s capital structure which is rather complicated and includes stocks, bonds and notes in varying totals. Funded debt aggregates $4,004,500.
• » «
(Quality Issues Still in Demand—
Demand for so-called quality stocks continues to feature the market and the dearth of offerings in preferreds is accentuated. For instance, Monday somebody bought 100 shares of Associated Dry Goods preferred at 70 up 5. The closing bid and asked was 70 to 100.
* * *
Foreign Buying—
International brokers said that foreigners were again taking a fairly substantial interest in some of our shares with coppers and rails favored at the moment. There has been as much profit-taking abroad in the past week, as our markets showed, but on the whole foreign traders are substantially bullish on our situation. Erratic markets abroad have assisted in bringing buying into our securities.
» » *
Freight Traffic Rising—
On the basis of the few carloadings reports so far available, it seems almost certain that loadings reached a new peak for the year last week. Not only do agricultural loadings continue high, but industrial traffic also picked up. Moreover, the percentage drop from a year ago evidently was considerably reduced last week.
—The broad Street Gossip.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.