Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 28, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 15
tag connection* August 1 because they can purchase Louisiana aT|d Arkansas crude* .of practically the aame gravities at lower price*. Approximately 475 well* will be affected by th* move in East Texas.
Stocks lost one to three points yesterday in a reactionary market which lacked any motivating force ih the way of news and which constituted practically the only major set-back since the list started its almost perpendicular advance six weeks ago. The market opened the dajT generally at fractional advances but a general move toward profit-taking in the early forenoon precipitated a selling wave all through the list, resulting in sharp declines. A rally of small proportions did not hold and subsequently stocks were again sold in volume. The final hour brought an easing of the selling pressure, with closing prices generally slightly above the day’s lows.
WESTERN UNION—	‘
Considerable buying has been attracted to Western Union shares on the promise that any substantial upturn In general business condition* would be immediately reflected in the company’s earnings. This has been true in the past and earnings on any sizable improvement in business have come back rapidly. However. the stock which has already doubled In price from the year’s low levels has discounted improvement to some extent. With mounting costs and the recession in volume since last fall. Western Union has been forced to put in operating economies by further mechanization, which will help profits when business pick* up.
At the moment, the telegraph and cable business shows only negligible improvement over the earlier months of this year. Volume has been running about 12% behind figures of last year. In the six months to June 30, Western Union probably had a loss of upwards of $1,800,000 after interest charges, against a net profit of approximately $2,000,000 in the first
HOW THEY STAND—
Increased Earnings: Industrials 	 Rail*		a	Since July 1 ....	57 	 5	Additions Yesterday 3
Utilities 			 31	i
half of 1937. Normally business should not begin to pick up until mid-September and given a good volume in late month* of the year, it is conceivable that the losses of the earlier month* can be pared down.
• * • OILS—	'
While the general oil industry position seems to be strong, a few weak spots still exist. Gas and fuel oil stocks, because of the current lack of demand, are piling up each week to new high records. These are divided between light and heavy oils. Stocks of the former are only about 5,000,000 barrels higher than a year ago and are not considered burdensome in view of the approaching winter demand. Heavy oils, however, are about 32,000,000 barrels above a year ago, the larger part of the Pacific coast, and reflect the paucity of demand from industry for plant operation.
• • •
CRUDE PRODUCTION CONTROL-
Crude oil production for the country as a whole is still below estimated needs, but a few weak spots are apparent in Oklahoma and East Texas. Prorating of pipe line takings by large purchasers is again being resorted to, although one company involved is taking it* supplies m Illinois where it has developed substantial production. There is a possibility that the former taking* of this company in Oklahoma will be absorbed by some other buyers. As for East Texas, some gathering lines are sever-
'UTILITIES—	•
Electric jwoduction last week made the most favorable comparison with a year ago since March of th fat year, recording a decline of only 7.7%. In recent weeks the volume ha* been below a year ago by 10% or more. Some of the improvement may be attributed to pickup in demand for industrial power but to what degree is difficult to determine because of the inclement weather of the past ten day* which exercises an important influence on the consumption of electricity for lighting, refrigeration and air conditioning.
*	* e
MOTOR EARNINGS—
Earnings reports for the second quarter- of both General Motors Corp, and Chrysler Corp, exceeded Street predictions on the quarter’s result*. More important than the earnings, however. was the statement of General Motors officials that in the latter part of June a reversal of the downward trend established late last year was apparent, with consumer sales increasing, taking into consideration seasonal factors. Chrysler officials were no less optimistic, maintaining that the slight improvement in general business has already been reflected in rapid liquidation of dealers’ stocks of new and used -cars.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.