Purely Gossip--
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 14, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
The Street was not surprised with lower market yesterday, but there was no change in the small volume situation, and some brokers assert there will not be until the market gets going on the upside again. Technicians are pretty mixed at the moment, with Considerable bearishness on the part of some, while others believe the market will move within comparatively narrow limits until the middle of July when there are expectations on the part of some traders that general business will show signs of improvement. Meanwhile, markets the world over are marking time and trying the endurance of all concerned.
Heard on the Street—
t Some officials of companies whose shares I are selling at a high relationship to earnings express wonderment at their retaining such , prices in view of business conditions * • * Trad' ers. while a trifle more bearish, were not 1mI portant sellers • • • Attendance in the Street, , particularly in regard to partners, was light I and there is much vacationing going forward * • * Business news savors of summer flatness, j which has made for further declines in trade indices • • • Airplanes shares sold off rather I sharply following Secretary’ Hull’s remarks that I sales of machines should be restricted so far ' as belligerent nations who bomb civilians arc i concerned.
j	•	•	•
du Font-
Remarks of Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., on the automotive industry threw some doubt on the next General Motors’ dividend, according to gossip in the Street. This factor brought renewed celling into du Pont which derives 22 cents a share i quarterly from the 25 cents Motors' payment ■ Chemical income was about 43 cents a share | an the first quarter of this year and is expected [to be leas in the current quarter in view of the • generally lower level of business. There was < also talk in the Street of liquidation in the stock from large investment accounts.
I	•	•
, Geiwt Utility Holdings-
j In connection with the death of Clarence H j Geist, it was learned that the large block oi | United Gas Improvement Co. common which Mr. . Geist received in 1930 in exchange for his holdings in New Jersey and Delaware utility comj pames was held by C. H. Geist Co.. Inc., Wilmington, Del. The shares are not trusteed as , had been reported in some circles Mr. Geist received a large block of U. G I. common, reported around 400,000 shares, m exchange for
I his holdings in Atlantic City Gas Co , Peoples , Gas Co. of New Jersey and Wilmington Gas Co., I according to an agreement made in June, 1930
Although the great majority of the common [ stock of the three companies was owned by Mr. j Geist and associates, the same terms were exI tended to minority holders of all three comj panics. Subsequently, U. G. I. transferred the i two New Jersey utilities to Public Service Corp of New Jersey in exchange for latter’s stock.
New Issues—
Street looks for further low levels for business in the coming month with not much incentive market-wise although it is expected that more new issues will make their appearance which may stimulate the bond market somewhat.
• * •
England Is Watching—	,
There is little foreign buying or selling in our securities at this time. Private correspondence from London says that brokers there are watching affairs in the United States more closely than their own. It is realized that a lot of the business activity in Great Britain at the moment grows out of munition business and that without this, operations in many industries would be on a low par with those in the United States. With, unsettled conditions In Europe likely for some time to come and the ever present "war" shadow, many British brokers believe that when things show signs of picking up here considerable investment monies will go into American securities.
• • •
Puerto Rican Drought Broken—
Sugar crop outlook in Puerto Rico has improved considerably with heavy rains on the Island breaking a drought of more than six months. Reports from the Island are that the heavy rainfalls of last week will go a long way in filling the reservoirs for use in aiding the next crop. Island producers are now completing their grinding season on the old crop.
• • »
Commodity Trading-
Brokers report a slightly accelerated Increase in interest in commodity markets with grain a main factor. There is still a lot of bullishness on wheat among the rank and file of the Street. Wires from abroad suggest that speculative interest in grain is increasing there, too.
• —The Broad strect gossip
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.