Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 24, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 13
Sy tlobott
XjAFFA'X
” TITnirsday’s market eclipsed, the : Bnces of the three earlier days this enthusiasm and breadth of trading, of 2,400,000 shares changed hands fourth day of rising prices and some of the individual gains were fully as sensational as "those that preceded them and were the more remarkable in that they were added without a pause for consolidation.
The business world was also stirred to new enthusiasm. The best illustration was noted
periomn-•week in A total ; in the
in the steel scrap market in Pittsburgh where another 50 cent upturn to $12 occurred, the fourth in three days for a total advance of $1.25 a ton. Late in the day scrap dealers announced they would not sell under $13 a ton. If sales should occur at that level, they would represent the fifth advance for a total of $2.25 a ton. In other branches of Industry, chiefly consumers goods lines, the advantage was similarly with the sellers and predictions of a mid-summer rise in business activity were more widespread.
Chief feature of market interest was the exceptional strength in rails, carrying the Dow-Jones average well above the May peak for a gain of more than 2 points on the day. Industrials advanced nearly 3’i points to 127.40. Utilities gained only slightly. Union Pacific, with a 7 point move, was a feature and Allied Chemical jumped another 51,* points. Pronounced bulges in motors, electrical equipments and the general run of industrial shares worried the stale short account that has been holding on grimly waiting for a reaction and disturbed those who had put out new short commitments during the Tuesday and Wednesday bulges. The market closed reasonably near the best levels
for the day. Bonds were generally higher, with raLls in heavy demand. The stock ticker, was late several times during the day.
• • •
TEXTILES—
Each wave of strength in security and commodity markets brings a new note of optimism from business quarters. The textile industry has abandoned talk of curtailments, and some mill agents predict a rise in mill activity in the next two months. Demand in Worth Street broadened yesterday, with an active inquiry appearing for all types of goods. Demand no longer runs just to gray goods, but also to colored goods. Business in sheets was reported as the largest in several^ months.. One of the features of yesterday's business was the covering of requirements on fancy cotton goods as far ahead as next spring.
Prices on most active constructions of gray goods were up *4 cent a yard from Monday. Several million yards of print cloth were sold up to early afternoon, and that comprised only a small portion of the total business done.
MACHINE TOOLS— .
Machine tool people are cautiously optimistic about the fall outlook. Midwest companies are looking forward, to a large amount of government buying with appropriations which become alive: July ^1-but the-process of drawing up specifications,* advertising for bids, and finally making awards, is se slow that not much is expected before September or October. One sales manager points out that Labor Day probably will be a turning point in a good many ways, including the actual outflow of government funds on pump priming projects.
While Midwest ’manufacturers are -heartened by the psychological effect the stock market rise- may have on customers, they have experienced no decided break away from the deflated level of sales of recent months. Domestic orders are fluctuating from week to week, and foreign business has been the main sustaining factor, with Russia doing a little buying, though not on the scale of 1937. *
• • •
RAIL EQUIPMENT—
News that the PWA was studying a plan to stimulate railroad equipment buying revived a discussion that has been presented to Washington at least a half dozen times during the last two depressions. It is possible that with the government moving deeper and deeper into the lending field something tangible may emerge from one of these proposals one of these days. The latest plan, calling for- disposal of 300,000 obsolete freight cars for junk and for the government, through the PWA to act as an acceptance corporation in purchase of new cars, was submitted yesterday morning to the PWA legal department for study.
The proposal has many angles.. If the railroad situation were set up on a sound operating basis there would be no difficulty financing privately equipment purchases, for such loans always have been well secured and have been popular with private investors. However, with the railroad system being pushed into red ink through a combination of depressed business and unyielding labor and political tactics, a new government lending agency would probably hasten the trend toward government ownership. Yet, such a plan, provided pressure were put upon rail management to take advantage of the lending facilities, no doubt would be stimulating to business for a while.
• • * BUILDING----
Manufacturers of residential building materials are favored marketwise in some quarters. Certainly it is the one division of industry, excepting aircraft manufacturing, where current business compares rather well with a year ago. May building permits were close to last year’s level and the FHA figures on mortgage insurance have made a good showing.
Other types of building construction are not making an equally promising showing. In fact, the Engineering News Record figures for the week ended June 23 show a drop of 71^r under
the corresponding 1937 week, against a drop of 5% for the first 25 weeks of 1938. Last week's figures, however, were 15% above the preceding week which was a particularly poor one.
Private construction last week was 84% below the 1937 week, reflecting the rigid curtailment in heavy work.	*
• • • '
SIDEWISE—
Some chartists are looking for the correction of this move to take a sidewise direction rather than a severe letdown involving the usual 50% correction. In thinner markets a sharp upturn would be expected to be followed by a reasonably prompt reaction, but the current move has been so broad, and it has emerged from such an extended base of dull dealings and nominal price changes, that some regard must be given to the unusual circumstances. Those shorts who have not covered by this time aie not expected, therefore, to have an opportunity to take in their lines of stock halfway down from the tops of this move. These same chartists are not predicting that the bear market has turned but they believe that it'may be a long time before the market returns to recent levels, and perhaps those lows have been left behind indefinitely.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.