Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 30, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
ROW THEY STAND—	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings: Industrials .........	Sept. 1	yesterday
Ralls 				•	• • -
Utilities 			L,.	21	4
Demeaned Eaxnlngni Industrials ..........	.. 108	2
Ralls 		... es	
Utilities 			...	54	5
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—	. .
Thursday, on the New York Stock Ex-
By Robert Kaftan
. The,stock market had to depend Thursday largely -on vague, semi-official intimations that the four-power conference at Munich was proceeding satisfactorily, but it made the most of its opportunities. The opening was rather irregular but generally arm. The British pound, meanwhile, strengthened during the course of the Jay and this added to confidence that the market might hope for the best regarding the outcome of the Munich conference.
’ Those who were waiting for a secondary opportunity to get into the market found little stock being offered at concessions. The aircraft group moved ahead steadily and motors, rubbers and merchandising issues tended to work higher. This impressive technical performance brought a rush of buying in the last hour. Chrysler was carried up to a new high for the move on an increasing turnover. Union Pacific, Pennsylvania, Atchison and Southern Pacific moved up in volume.
A heartening development was the awakening of interest in utilities. For the first time in months these issues were swept ahead with the general market in fairly large blocks. Fifteen utilities used in the Dow-Jones average gained 0.62 points to 18.62, rails were up 1.54 to 25.62 and industrials gained 3.48 to 137.16.
The bond market, which showed a firmer trend through the morning and midday dealings encountered a renewed wave of buying in the final hour, with rails a feature of special strength on this move. Commodities generally were firm.'
• * *
TECHNICAL PATTERN—
In meeting support where it did Wednesday, the stock market has acquired the respect of Dow theorists, chartists generally and others who operate a great deal on technical form. At the recent lows the industrial average had lost about one-half of the mid-summer gains, and rails had lost in the neighborhood of two-thirds of their gains. Both performances can be considered m line with technical expectations regardless of the trend of the war news. It so happened that news ot Hitler’s message to Chamberlain arrived in the nick of time, otherwise there is no telling how the market pattern may have looked by this time. Nevertheless, news has a way of fitting in with the market's technical. manifestations and. lt might al9p.be pointed out that the war danger arrived in late August just when technical probabilities called for a correction.
Some technical selling can be expected after the current sweeping advances have run their course. Those who missed an opportunity to get into the market on the initial good news are counting, on a secondary reaction to give them another opportunity. Incidentally, a reaction following this advance also will provide an opportunity of judging whether the broad, declining phase has ended. Selling should dry up us the recent lows are approached, if the main trend is to be considered upward.
* • •
BUSINESS NEWS—
Business news will receive careful attention in the Street over the next few weeks for there is much less uniformity about the business and stock market outlook than there was two months ago. -A.t that time there was a heavy preponderance of bullish opinions whereas in recent weeks many, having observed that numerous secondary issues had lost substantial ground,* turned bearish and indicated they did not like the market’s prospects regardless of the outcome of the war threat.
Neutral observers are considering the possibility that business in recent weeks may have been held in check by the extremely disturbing foreign affairs and that October may bring a delayed upswing, more in line with the optimism that was reigning prior to Labor Day.
... .
LUMBER AND GRAIN—
Northwest railroad carriers that turned in excellent earnings statements for August, largely on the strength of the heavy grain movement, cannot be expected to show similar results, at least from that commodity, this month. The Northwest spring wheat movement was the largest in fourteen years and receipts at Minneapolis set an all time record. That movement-has been virtually completed and, incidentally, with no shortage of cars.
Rails handling lumber should be buoyed by the fact that orders for the week of September 3.7 jumped to 202,280,000 feet after slumping in' the preceding week to 160,035,000 feet. Production is still in excess of incoming business but not by as wide a margin as in the preceding week.	.
aircraft issues—
Aircraft issues gave a very impressive performance during the day, with Douglas and Glenn Martin two of the outstanding gainers. It is assumed that there are going to be some substantial orders for aircraft over the nextseveral years especially from foreign sources. One individual in touch with Canadian business Interests reported this week that it -was expected that Great Britain would quadruple its air force between now and 1941. Probably much of this business will go to Canada, but there should' be -a substantial overflow business for European governments have had good reason over the past several months to make .jealous comparisons with countries that were" nearly lined up against them in active hostilities. There probably will be a good deal of competitive building'up of air forces.
* • •
steel scrap—
Steel scrap, often a very good barometer of intermediate swings in business conditions, has been dormant recently. There has been a tendency to mark time over recent weeks awaiting the outcome of the war threat. The export market often influences scrap prices. Domestically, it appears that mills bought enough during mid-summer to carry them along into the fall,-'but from here on the metal should indicate what lies ahead and whether or not forthcoming demands for steel are to be better than expected originally. The prices remain quiet and unchanged. Meanwhile, ingot production at Youngstown is moving up a little further to a new high for the recovery.	'
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.