Purely Gossip
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 11, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
posite steel operations* * figures today • • • The buying wave in securities was of country-wide proportions and wire houses reported buying orders from many of those who have been waiting the so-called “opportunity” to get ^aboard. Undoubtedly there was some pur* by short time traders who believe that the rise in the market may bring in buying today on which they can take profits • • * Street thought that short covering played but a small part in the rise as it is generally believed that the floating short interest has been of small proportions for some time. A fairly large short interest in Steel and Telephone was covered earlier last week.
• • •
A Surprise-
Wall Street went home last Friday night feeling that a reorganization bill would be passed that was so emasculated that it would have little effect on stocks or business. The House action in killing the bill was a bomplete surprise to not only Wall Street but the country and the answer was a flood of buying orders. The first hour's volume Saturday waa twice the total for the dullest full day earlier in the week. Nor was the activity in low priced stocks only: it was scattered generously throughout the list and included many of the middle-priced and. even higher priced issues.
Saturday witnessed one of the most sensational advances in the stock market in many a day accompanied with a volume that gladdened the spirits of Wall Street and the large number of brokers and clients who came downtown in view of the news from Washington. The industrial averages are now some 17 points above the lows of the decline and a large part of this was accomplished in the last two sessions of the week. The defeat of the New Deal in the killing of the reorganization bill not only came as a surprise to the country and Wall Street but it arrived when the stock market was in a receptive mood to advance. There was considerable discussion in the Street in regard to the effect of the latest happenings in the House on pump-priming and those who view the latest inflationary plans of the Administration- with distrust wonder if Congress will not tone down the “spending” orgy that is planned. Some say that with Congress in its present mood the far reaching tax revision planned by the Senate will have a better chance of coming out of conference with a pretty whole skin. This together with the feeling that the lawgivers are in a helpful mood, makes some traders believe that business may ahow Increased signs of confidence.
• • • .
Heard on the Street——
Some investment trust buying was reported Saturday and one was said to be a buyer of several thousand shares of a leading “blue chip” industrial which scored a sharp advance * * * Incidentally, a leading investment trust is gossipped as having been a heavy buyer of stocks on both Friday and Saturday * • • With the industrial averages above 115, technicians* objectives for a rally have been reached and some think that on any strength today considerable profit taxing will be encountered between 115-118 for the averages • • * Street believes there will be little change in the com-
Telephone—
American Telephone & Telegraph advanced some 20 points in a week to Saturday. The FCC “one-man” investigation report was published on Friday, April 1, at 2 p. m. On that day American Telephone sold at the year's low of 111 and on Saturday, it sold at 131 so that the shares have advanced in value marketwise in about a week some $380,000,000. Of course, some of the earlier advance was accomplished at the expense of shorts for buying around the lower levels was pretty urgent as investors observed that the price, all things considered, was at a pretty low level, even taking the risk of a reduced dividend later in the year. The next directors’ meeting to act on dividends is mid-May when the regular rate is anticipated. February net income from long lines operations was certainly about as bad as could be being not only less than 10% of the total for same month a year ago but reduced to $73,711, a negligible total for the corporation. For the first two months of the year earnings were about half what they were same two months of 1937 The drop "n gruss was not unduly large but the higher costs and taxes got in their fine work.
* • •
Europe on the Job-
Long before our opening Saturday, the only important stock market open in Europe, viz., Amsterdam was doing a land office business in American securities at prices not far below the high openings here. Naturally, such business could only be limited in view of wariness on the part of Dutch traders to consummate trades before our opening. Not only American but London and other foreign buyers were sending in orders to the Dutch exchange for American shares. There was an unusually large number ot London brokers at their offices said cables, although the London Exchange was closed at usual. Interest in the New Deal's defeat abroad was exemplified by reported “unofficial” sales in American shares in London and some brokerage houses here received a lot of “unofficial” quotes from representatives in London on American stocks indicating willingness to trade before our opening. Some brokers reported quite a large amount of foreign buying of our securities here for a Saturday and apparently foreigners feel quite cheerful about the outlook.
• • •
Otis Elevator—
Otis Elevator was a star performer Saturday and right at the close advanced several points on several thousand shares changing hands. This stock has advanced from below 14 to Saturday’s high of 23 in something over a week. Street hears the company is doing well and some of the important stockholders “stood tight” when the market was weak with reports of averaging in the neighborhood of 15. Undoubtedly trade reports of the first quarter of the current year, showing the largest total of major engineering construction awards since 1931, have accelerated interest in this and other securities allied with building.
—The broad Street Gossip.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.