Purely Gossip
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 4, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Purely Gossip —
Technicians said that the stock market was following along the expected lines in showing strength. The market showed more aggressive strength than in some weeks past and the rally bore the earmarks of something more than the “soda water” variety.
Trade news was spotted enough with some signs of improvement here and there and Street was watching Washington news and also the fate of bill.
in regard to rail the reorganization
Heard on the Street—
There was quite a brisk
Street Saturday and both the bond and stock markets offered enough inducement for those who came down • • • Brokers said that most inquiries were for lower priced rail and industrial shares • • ♦ There was short covering reported in American Telephone & Telegraph •	*	• Little discussion was heard on the
Walker report on the Telephone investigation and the Street believes that there is nothing likely to be produced out of the investigation that will be considered very seriously by Congress at this juncture • •	" ”	-
so-called international shares stronger issues. Apparently by Amsterdam and London for the time being • • • Brokers said that there was more speculative buying of second grade rail bonds than stocks.
• • •
Thoughts From Abroad—
The following letter was received from a London broker writing to The Wall Street Journal: “No country wants war, but Hitler appears to be determined to prove to the world the statement he made that he is ’the great-
attendance in the
• Noted that the were among the selling pressure has been lifted
est German that ever lived', by bringing under German domination the Danube countries and extending eastward into the Ukraine and Russia. I think his plans are directed eastward for the present, and that the next objective .will be Czechoslovakia. The Czechs are well armed, having the largest group of munition factories in the world In the shape of the Skoda Works, also have a good air force and would undoubtedly fight, but we feel they could not stand long against Germany, even if helped by France. The British navy is, I believe, in first class condition and probably stronger than at any period in its history. The air force is being rapidly increased and improved. The army is • too small, and it could not be of any immediate value in any Continental war, but it seems improbable that a British army would again be sent on to the Continent. If France were attacked and England called upon to carry out her agreement, which is the only, actual commitment she has, the British navy and the air force would help France in every way possible. England and France will certainly speed up their armament plans, more particularly the air force, and the Scandinavian countries will also probably rearm. I think the large part of the expenditures on armament will, for the present, be financed by loans, although there will now probably be some increase in taxation in this year’s budget. Britain’s growing adverse balance of trade will probablj result in the pound being depreciated in agreement with the United States, which will mean a higher price for gold. I think interest rates will probably be a little higher. The price of government securities should not fall materially but the purchasing power of money will be reduced, and certain selected equity shares should show rises.*1’
• •
British Markets—
A prominent English capitalist writes “while our markets are very narrow, unless there are new developments we have probably seen the low prices, at any rate for the time being.”
Kall Bonds—
Strength in rail bonds attracted a lot of at** tention and among the weaker sisters among the carrier second grade issues bids often were considerably above the previous sale. Brokers thought that there might be a latent short interest in some of these issues which might bring some fairly substantial advances in those which have been depressed in recent weeks, provided the news breaks in the right direction. There are all sorts of reports going the rounds of what the forthcoming report on rail deliberations in Washington might produce and probably some of these are too hopeful in the opinion of the Street. At the same time any constructive news on the carrier group would be helpful.
-THE BROAD STREET GOSSIP
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.