Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 16, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Bl ROBESZ LATTAN
Thursday’s stock market was
.	stimulated
by the trip of Prime Minister Chamberlain of Great Britain to Berchtesgaden for a conference with Hitler. American shares in London were sharply higher before our opening, foreign exchange markets had improved and British government bonds had recovered practically all the losses of the preceding day.
Gains of two to approximately four points were recorded in pivotal stocks at our opening. Orders were bunched and initial transactions were delayed in some instances until well after tlie usual opening time. Chrysler had a delayed opening ana showed a gain cf 3% points in the initial sale. Steels, rubbers, electrical equipments. coppers, rails and utilities participated in the upturn.
In many Instances opening prices were the highs for the day. General Electric and Westinghouse reacted from their opening levels and most other groups receded slowly. There was little stock for sale, however, and the market moved at a slow pace through the midday dealings.
Firmer tendencies developed in the last hour. Coppers moved up to the best levels for the day on the news that domestic buying was in unusrually large volume. Motors, steels, oils and other important groups also advanced. The industrial average gained 3.29 points. railB were up 0.97 points and utilities 0.73 points.
Grain markets lost ground as the war tension eased. Bond prices were firmer. It was not until after the close of the market that news that the Chamberlain-Hitler conference had been discontinued temporarily reached Wall Street.
in earlier weeks this year. However, public construction is sharply higher, or 71% ahead of the like week a year ago due to the large volume of highway and public building awards. Private contracts at $8,152,000 for the week compared with $10,444,000 In the preceding week and $20,781,000 in the like week a year ago.
Figures for the 37 weeks of this year show a 4% gain over the corresponding period a year ago. Total awards have run ahead of a year ago for nine consecutive weeks.
SHIPRING—
Shipping, w'hich experienced a tremendous boom on the outbreak of the World War in 1914, has shown little reaction as yet to the current war threat. Eastbound traffic on passenger liners is small, but it normally is low at this time of the year, with the end of tourist traffic. While there have been some cancellations, the number is not abnormal. Westbound traffic is heavy, but even without a war threat, tourists would now be crowding the boats on the return from Europe. Had the war threat occurred several months ago, it might have Interfered seriously with the summer tourist traffic. Even with the war threat the domestic tramp charter market has been dead both for tankers and dry cargo vessels. Prices are low. and it is thought that possible customers are paying more attention to the effect of war threats on industrial activity than on the eventual demand for cargo
HEDGES CAUSE WORRY—
Speculators who have tried in many complicated ways to hedge against war possibilities find themselves in an unusually difficult position at the moment. Large purchases of grains and copper have been made against the war threat and liquidation has been under way in security markets. Some traders are fearful to relinquish bull positions taken in commodities while they are still holding a position in common shares. A peaceful settlement of the present European situation might bring about a reaction in those commodities that have been bid up primarily on war speculation. But a “hedge,” It it is to accomplish anything at all. must be held through a period of uncertainty such as the present.
Many traders who have tried in elaborate ways to discount war prospects wish they had merely followed a policy of sitting on the sidelines until conditions became clearer. Many brokers are recommending that customers do nothing for the time being and be prepared to miss the initial move as insurance against a dratic error in judgment.
NEW YORK CENTRAL—
New York Central’s own line car loadings for the week ended September 10, which included the Labor Day holiday, were naturally sharply under the preceding week’s level but it iis notable that x the total at 29,943 cars was within a thousand of the 30,931 cars loaded in the August 27 week. Most of the leading roads were sharply under the August 27 week showing.
Based on estimates for August, Central probably continued to show an improvement in net operating income. This is a trend that has been in progress since last February. The current month, however, has two less working days and it is questionable if the increase in loadings is going to be sufficient to permit September to show a gain over August.
INVESTMENT TRUSTS-----
Very little comment is heard in Wall Street regarding investment trust operations. This is a very poor market in which to attempt to formulate long pull decisions and it would not be surprising if many of the leading companies had decided that the fewer changes in portfolios the better, considering the circumstances. At least one big trust is known to have decided to maintain its investment position on the basis of yields and long term values, rather than attempt to meet each change in the investment outlook with a positive program of action. The latter program would involve getting in and out of the same class of security at the same time other institutions were following an identical course and it would mean that the investment companies were putting prices, especially in these thin markets, up and down on each other.
CONSTRUCTION—
Latest week’s figures on engineering construction awards show an even more striking lag In private awards as against a year ago and against the preceding week than has been shown
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.