Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 5, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Laftan
surprising
Bl ROBERT
Stocks gave another
__________ _____ _______ .	.. exhibition yesterday of their capacity for reversing the trend. Picking up after the previous day’s abrupt fade-out, prices opened firm and pushed ahead slowly but steadily and many issues were carried to a strong close that topped, in many cases, the best levels of Monday’s session. The industrial share index gained about 4 points, while rails and utilities were up a little less than a half point.
Steel and metal shares were prime favorites throughout. Anaconda was sharply higher and gave a consistently good performance from the opening. International Nickel also was firm. Bethlehem, U. S. Steel, Republic and Youngstown were carried ahead slowly at first but they gained additional support as the session progressed. Westinghouse Electric gained nearly 5 points and General Electric 2 points. Even Chrysler and General 'Motors showed remarkable strength, and improved on the previous day’s best levels after being unable to hold them, on that day. Tobaccos, oils and building shares took part.
Rails were somewhat sluggish at first and did not appear disposed to join in the upward movement. But there was improvement later in this category, Atchison, New York Central, Pennsylvania, Southern Pacific and Southern Railway gaining moderately.
Utilities were indifferent to the previous day’s Supreme Court setback. North American and American Water Works were well bought.
Railroad bonds were under pressure in the morning and this gave the market for senior issues an infirm appearance. Pronounced strength in grains featured commodity markets.
• • •
oovernAent spending—
Second readings of the President’s speech have produced a more •’bullish” reaction in some financial quarters. Bullishness is not based on the expectation that private capital will be reassured sufficiently, to get Involved in long-term enterprise, and hence it is not sound recovery that is anticipated. But the latter half of the President’s remarks indicates plainly that the federal spending machinery will be turned loose, due to popular demand, if a natural business recovery does not get under way before very long. Such a prospect is expected to halt much voluntary liquidation If it does not produce actual buying of shares, and hence the mere possibility of cessation of liquidation creates a moderately bullish sentiment in some speculative quarters. Coupled with the possibility for some rebound in business indices, the upside is viewed more favorably.
There 1b still the matter of business profits to be reckoned with and the current quarter is expected to produce some sad figures. The market’s course is not expected to be a smooth one, therefore, and even some of those who are following this move have their fingers crossed.
as its tape action signifies. If
ite in the Street, this stock continues to climb it should help out the underwriters who are still holding the 3*4% bonds at prices fully 10 points under the offered price of 95*4. In fact, considering the consistently good market action of the common, it is surprising that the bids for the bonds have not moved up lately.
PROFESSIONALS—
Several brokers report that some of their big traders are abandoning operations and quitting camp temporarily. There was some short covering in Monday's session on lines of stock carried over from the old year. The bears apparently feel stocks are down substantially and enough bad news has been around to make these traders wary about following the bear side any longer. However, they are not disposed to attempt operations on the long side, feeling the background for advancing prices is not strong enough.
Dullness of the market probably has had as touch to do with discouraging professionals as ■uiything else for it is recognized that broad gwings, such as those that have been occurring Jately on little volume, will make it Increasingly difficult for a trader to get in and out of the toarket.
little such been year, have
• • •
UTTLE GOLDS—
There was a strong bull market in the Sold shares yesterday. The larger issues, •is Homestake, Dome and McIntyre, have holding around the high levels for the past tout many of the junior Canadian issues
been meeting with more interest. As one of the Canadian houses says, a notable change has Ikaken place in mining promotion, with the option system in less favor and being abandoned lor direct finance methods which call for a thorough proving of property before the stock 1b offered to the public.
Consequently, several reputable firms, which hi the past would not attach their name to doubtful propositions, are showing more interest in gold mining properties which are in the development stage.
PHILIP MORRIS—
Philip Morris is a stock that has never gone back to its October low. It dropped to 65 on the bad break in the general market, jumped to 90 a week later, reacted to 71 in the next few weeks and has been creeping ahead toward 00 again. The company has completed an unusually good year and it is estimated officially that sales for 1037 ran 50% ahead of the 5,600,000,000 cigarettes sold in 1936. The company, moreover, did well through the latter half of the year when business generally was turning downward and it appears to be holding its favorable position in relation to the rest of the industry.
There has been some talk of a split-up in the stock. Interests close to the company are not inclined to deny this report. However, they are disposed to feel that such action, should it eventuate, would await a better market and one that would permit the company to finance its bank loans.	-
BTFFTH—
Steel shares derived additional stimulation from the estimates from several of the steel centers that mid-week operations would be stepped up further. Youngstown Sheet & Tube has unexpectedly lighted another furnace. Some of the Pittsburgh producers also are doing fiomewhat better than anticipated late last Week.
Bethlehem Steel has become quite a favor-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.