Abreast of the Market: Market Diary BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 23, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 15
the Market
2&arket Diary
13U
HOW THE! STAND—
	Since	Additions
Increased Earning*:	March 1	Yesterday
Industrials 					 283	14
Raila 			 17	1
Utilities 		.....	55	9
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 			 216	7
Rails			38	1
Utilities		....	39	5
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—	-
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange four stocks made new highs and 139 stocks made new lows, for the year 1938.
Laffan
By Robebtt
Stock prices faded in a dull session Tuesday, carrying the rails and utilities to new lows for the bear market and the industrials well under the lows of the past few months. Announcement by Mexican government that it planned no seizure of mining properties failed to have a reassuring effect for the metal shares that had weakened the day before dropped back after a mild opening bulge and other sections of the market dropped from 1^2 to nearly four points. The market plainly showed that bad news has a depressing effect on prices and removal of the bad news fails to have a stimulating effect, so great has become the distrust of private capital over the trend of affairs in world politics and economics.
Firmness in London stock prices was Ignored. Commodity prices continued to sag and railroad shares, despite all the losses that had gone before, appeared as forlorn as ever. Union Pacific dropped 4 points and Atchison, Chesapeake & Ohio and the rest of the list retreated further. Coppers, rubbers, oils and chemicals joined the downward movement. The market was dull throughout, but the trend was no more comforting on that account for the lack of support suggested by implication that any pick-up in volume of liquidation could give the market considerable trouble. Westinghouse Electric attracted a good deal of attention in the morning as it dropped to successive lows. The stock recovered some ground before the close, but the market as a whole ended fairly close to the bottom. Industrial averages lost 3.18 points, rails 0.99 point and utilities 0.30 point.
New High*— Banc as M Ki
New Low
Adfireoao Mult ABec pt xw.. Allied CBrmtcai Allied dtorm Am as <x, Dei Am Can Pf. • Am HAL pf.. Am eootlnc . Am Bmeittac. Am Tel A To) Anefaar Hock. . Arm ill or pf. .
Afmit't oork. Artloom Corp. Amoc Dry Oda AtdUiaoo . ... Barker Bros.. Barak Clear.. Bklyn Man T» Blclyn-M Tr pt BlOyn Do Gaa Bacyma Erse. Balova Watcb OaiU E*ackfn*. Carters A Gen Caae. j 1... Caterpillar Tr. Cent R B N J Che* A onio. Cb RKAF 7pf City Xnvestm*. Clark Eqalp. . Collin* A Aik Ceca Credit. . Consol Nairn. Cana E4U NT Coos iAnndrtea Con Oil S3 pf. Coat oil Del. . . Croaiey Radio Crucible steel. Davesa Stores Detroit Edlsea Dornin Stores. Dresser Mir B Klt&nrob Bcnlld Elee Boat . . .
Hooaebold Fin.
Boe Porto R pi
UTILITIES—
News affecting the utility industry came after the close of tne market. President Roosevelt announced removal from office of TVA Chairman Morgan for failure to respond to inquiries at the personally conducted White House investigation into affairs of that agency. The President remarked that he had no objection to a Congressional investigation. In the House, at around the same moment, the TVA. received a body blow when the membership rejected appropriations for the Gilbertsville Dam. which is considered essential to conduct of TVA operations. Chairman Morgan, therefore, was in the unique position of having lost his job but seen himself vindicated to some extent, all in an afternoon. A more thorough # investigation of TVA seems not improbable and the charges of the former chairman will have	‘
an
airing then.
COMMODITIES—
The stock market’s failure pressed by the improved tone market probably is due in a large measure to the poor performance of commodity markets. There was not much response on the part of commodities to last week’s war scare and the downtrend has been resumed as the European scene has appeared more peaceful, leading to the conviction that there are deep-seated economic difficulties pressing on the world markets quite apart from any consideration of war possibilities.
The upturn in London stock prices, moreover, did not carry the principal stock averages out of the downward course and traders are inclined to attribute the bulge in prices there this week to technical considerations. Many American investors and traders have not gotten over the shock of seeing British government bonds weaken as badly as they did last week and there has been a steady trickle of liquidation in several of our better grade industrials since that happened, notwithstanding the improvement in London.
* • »
RAIL LOADINGS-----
Part of the pressure on agricultural commodities has been occasioned by liberal offerings from the country, due to the 5% railroad rate increase which goes into effect March 28. This has been particularly noticeable in com. Individual railroad freight loadings do not show much benefit from these offerings as yet, but possibly some of the agricultural roads will reflect this situation in next week’s figures.
Loadings of manufactured goods have beeiV so depressed that there probably has been little
to in
become im-the London
Eureka VacWm Erana Prod'eta Fidelity FImmu. FlintlKota .... Food Machine Frank Sim pf. Geo am rran> Gen Bronx* . Gen Cable pt. Gen Electric.. Gen Foods . .
Gee Tbeat Eq Granby C-coo.
Granite City S» Qrt W Bar Pf Henna MA Opt Harb Walker.. Hollander A b Howe Sound., Ill Cent pf. -lorereoh Band Intercom Rbb. Int Arri pr pf. Int silver ps.
KnJnmatoo Sty Lehigh Valley. Lehn A Fink. Loew** Inc . -Loom W S% pi Loula A NmIl Ludlam Steel.
MacAnd A For Man Ry rtd. . Maracaibo OU McCrory Stra.
Mead Corp . Mid Cont Pet* Miaaloo Corp. Mohawk C*pet. Naah Cb A StL Nat Dept Stra Nat Tea .. Omnibus Corp. Pae Fin Cp.Ca I’ao Mills . . .
Tao Tm A Ta)
Pacific W OH. Panb P4R pt Park a Tilford Para Marq pt Phillipa Petro. Phoenix Heae FlttsScrABolt. Radio Corp . , Bayon'r inc of Readies Co-. Beading 1 pt. Reliable Stra.
Reynolds TobS Ritter Dental. Safeway Stra Safeway SC *7pt Safeway St 6pf Safewaiy St 0P1 Serve) ..... Sbaron Steel. Smith A o.. Snider Rackins Bon Rwy . . • Starrett L S. Superior on.. Superior steel. Swift A Co.. Tennessee Corp Tbermctd ... Thompson J R 20 Cent*? Fox Twin Coach.. Ulen A Co. • . Union Pacific O S Hoffm pi U S IndAlcoboi U 8 Leather A Vn tr C A C. Warner Pic pf War Br cv pf« West Md 2 pl Wexting E A M White Motor.
White Rk M 8 Wilson A Co.. Wilson $6 pf.
incentive to speed up shipments. Loadings fig’ ures, generally speaking, continue to make a poor showing and several roads this week have been showing poorer loadings than in the preceding week.
• * *
HIGH GRADE BONDS—
The position of high grade bonds as against speculative issues indicates there is lack of proportion somewhere and before long the former must either come down or improvement must develop in the latter. The high grade issues have benefitted from the fact that the average investor has not learned to sit by with cash and must employ funds somewhere. There has been a movement out of common stocks and speculative bonds into the better type bonds which has served as a prop for the latter. Insurance companies have had funds piling up and since there are few new issues they have had to find. Investment opportunities in outstanding bond issues.
However, the question arises of how much new capital will be pressing for investment if conditions do not change. In the past the bulk of new capital, excluding foreign funds, came either from corporate earnings or government deficit financing. Social security taxes, the undistributed profits tax and the business recession have effectively checked corporate savings. Individuals, with our present unemployment, steady reductions in dividends and salaries, cannot be accumulating savings on any important scale. Unless government deficit financing is stepped up again, or business manges to pull itself out of its rut, the position of high grade bonds would appear to be a defensive one from here out.
MEXICAN MINING—
Along with the official announcement by the Mexican government to the effect that there was no likelihood of expropriation of mining company properties, other favorable news from mining company areas in Mexico is arriving at head mining company offices here. Operations of Howe Sound Co. in Mexico, involving a large portion of the company’s production, have been and are going along at a good pace without interruption. American Smelting & Refining Co. has reached a settlement with workers at the Monterrey plant and in most other works.
General mining opinion here concerning the Mexican situation indicates that little trouble is anticipated with the Mexican government in mining districts. Some mining men point out that relations between the Mexican government and mining companies never have been quite so strained as in th case of oil concerns. Tax revenue from efficient mining operations is recognized as almost indispensable to a government that needs income before anything else.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.