Purely Gossip--
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 12, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
it in so many Instances, that the dispatches from Washington that Congress may fight the latest spending ideas, are hailed by many in the Street who respect economics and not merely the temporary gyrations of the stock market.
—The broad Street gossip.
While the stock market was heavy during the greater part of the day, a smart rally was in progress at the close and with prices at their best. Volume, too. picked up, although the total sales for the day were small enough.
Traders were doing little and were exceedingly mixed in their immediate stock market opinions. This made for filling the sidelines. Customers were not important buyers, but many of those who bought last week are still holding their stocks. However, there has been much profit taking among the short-term traders, some of whom took a short position early yesterday.
Street thought the undertone of the market indicated higher prices, particularly if some good news comes along to help the situation.
Heard on the Street—
Traders were impressed with the falling oft in trading on the morning setback. This was particularly marked on the Curb with volume less than half of what it was Monday and Saturday • • • Many brokers believe that the low level of business for the past three months has been pretty well discounted and that poor reports for the first quarter are not in themselves likely to have much stock* market effect • • • Some foreign and domestic buying of the weaker railroads in the ‘belief that will take care of “situations’* in the authorizing liberal RFC loans until the sion can see rail problems thoroughly
out * • • Buyers were not following the market up, nor were sellers inclined to press stocks for sale. At the same time, brokers believe that there has been a substantial increase in debit balances in the past week.
bonds ot Congress rails by next scs-threshcd
Better Weather—
The advent of warmer weather, which made itself felt yesterday, was expected to stimulate some trades, particularly the garment lines. Pre-Easter shopping this year has been late and not good, according to many local retailers. But between now and “	’
expect to do a fairly finery.
Sunday dry goods stores good business in Caster

Summer Rente-
Rentals at summer	_
year’s figures, according to some of those interested Although rents in many instances are quoted around last year’s levels, it is that there will be considerable shading figures before the end of May.
resorts are not up to last
believed of these
Divergent Viewpoints-—	•
There are some pretty wide apart in regard to the stock market in the Street at the moment. Some believe that the worst of the decline has been seen and that new lows for the averages are unlikely—at least for a long time to come. On the other hand, there are others who believe that the remnants of the New Deal still have to be liquidated and that considerably lower prices are likely to be encountered before a permanent upward swing develops. Anyway, the Street believes it all depends on business in coming weeks and that if there are definite *	‘
attack on the old not forestalled.
opinions*
signs of improvement, any lows might be deferred if
Put* and Calls—
In view of the market and the fact that most of the options bought these days are for protective purposes the following quotations of 30 days puts and calls are interesting: American Smelting puts are quoted 4 points below the market and calls 3 Vs above; American Telephone & Telegraph 15 and 8; Anaconda 2 Vs and 2; Atchison 3V£ and 3V&; Bethlehem Steel 6 and S; Chrysler 6 and 4; Consolidated Edison and 1; General Electric 2 and 1%; General Motors 2 and 2; Montgomery Ward 2 and 2%; New York Central Vs and Va: XJ. S. Steel 5% and 4 and Westinghouse Electric 12 and 8.
recent advance in the stock
Not So Pessimistic—	*
While there is no great enthusiasm over the 'immediate business outlook it is notable that the Street is not as pessimistic as it was in past months and that there is a gradual improvement in sentiment although this, it is admitted, is largely based on hope.
Little—
with foreign connections say is no disposition on the part buy *heavily into American
Foreigners Doing
Some brokers that while there of foreigners to _ stocks cables indicate that many are Ln a buying mood and are keeping a close watch on our business affairs. New York correspondents of some foreign houses have been requested to cable any improvement noted in any industry from now on. -
Don’t Like Pump Priming—
Perhaps one of the interesting sidelights on the President's pump priming -plans is the fact that many brokers and clients in Wall Street want none of IL A few years ago, such inflationary proposals, perhaps less understood at that time, w.ere followed with strong markets and all sorts of enthusiastic talk among business people who were to benefit by. the temporary ''boom". Today, Wall Street, in the wirr	the result: ixx fact, has lost by
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.