Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 21, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
BY ROBERT
Yesterday’s powerful
Latfan
__________ _	stock buying movement caught flat footed the army of idle speculators and investors who have been waiting for July shutdowns in industrial plants to provide time for more leisurely accumulation- The market got oft to a running start, with volume in the flrst half hour equivalent to almost two and one-half times the total of Saturday s two-hour session.
Accumulated evidence of a moderate but unseason&l pick-up in several business lines seemed to touch off the spark. At least. Wall Street had no single, spectacular reason to account for the demonstration. It abandoned its conjectures about devaluation, aided partly by more convincing official denials. Gold Shares backed off from recent peaks amidst the buying movement in the rest of the list. Attention was diverted to itemized accounts of business quickening. Steel activity expanded a little further starting the week and figures on employment made a fair showing. Coupled with the proposed pump-priming effort ample ground existed for hopes for better business, unassisted by further monetary devices.
Practically all classes of issues shared in the upturn. Volatile industrials were sharply higher before Wall Street had much time to become aware of what was taking place. The comparatively large blocks at the opening carried a warning that something unusual was afoot after the recent extremely dull session. Gains of three to five points were recorded in leaders before the session ended. The market consolidated its position as it went along, failing to back down at any time to the early morning levels. Successive buying waves carried the list higher through the afternoon and buying broadened to embrace rails, utilities and industrial specialties. B.-M.T. preferred dropped off ©n omission of the preferred dividend but there were few exceptions to the uptrend. Industrials gained 5.38 points in the average to 118.61, rails were up 0.97 points at 20.70 and utilities gained 0.82 points at 19.36. Bond and commodity markets also improved*
• * »
FOREIGN BUYING—
Several of the brokers had large foreign buying orders to execute in the early dealings yesterday. Curiously enough, there were no similar spectacular performances in foreign security markets and this led some traders to speculate on the possibility that some of the American accounts operated in London may have decided that the time was ripe for more aggressive bullishness on America.
The short interest had little opportunity to run to cover. After the close several leading Industrial shares were still lending at a premium of from $1 to $2 a hundred shares, reflecting heavy borrowing for the short account. ...
these rumors and witn tne am* While he thought American ~	he was
connected with bassador’s visit.	_
had about “cried itself out*' not cheerful on European economic conditions.
RAIL BONDS—
The recovery in high grade and speculative railroad bonds did not overcome all the losses ot late last week but it took a long stride in that oirection, with the index of each category moving up more than a full point and aiding materially in giving the entire bond market a better appearance. The real test of whether the present move has the makings of a genuine reversal in the intermediate trend of both the bond and stock markets will probably be determined by the action of railroad issues. Industrial stocks are close enough to their April highs of 121 to make penetration of that level a distinct possibility but rails, having drifted off more sharply, have more ground to make up before crossing their peaks of 23.50. Under the Dow theory both averages must confirm a change m trend and rails have been rather consistently the lagging features. However, they did better than industrials in May by crossing the April tops while industrials -refused to do so.
OILS—
Oils were undisturbed by the announcement that Texas will be restored to a full seven-day-a-week basis beginning July 1. This action will add about 400,000 barrels to the state’s daily average allowable but it is assumed that the order lifting restriction would not have been given had gasoline and crude inventories not been decreased to satisfactory proportions. There were some reports late in the day that there were protests against lifting of the Sunday shut-down order.
However, the commission probably has seen that it can, through drastic action, apply brakes on rising supplies and provide some measure of control over the situation. An increase in production therefore was not regarded unfavorably.
EMPLOYMENT—
Mews that employment In the construction . industry in New York State advanced from mid-April to mid-May by 10.7% took its place alongside some of the other slightly more cheering Items of business Interest. The State Department of Labor reported that there were gains of 8.8% m payrolls and 12.6% in man-_ hours, based upon information received from 1.700 firms. The number and estimated construction coat of building permits issued in 103 communities in April and May were nearly equal, but well under the level of a year ago. Employment losses in Pennsylvania were confined to 3% from mid-April to mid-May.
Employment figures may be influenced in
-	part by seasonal tendencies, but nevertheless
-	these are an encouraging note after the extreme declines in employment and payrolls
= through the past winter and preceding fall. Thia fact, together with the greater relief outlays, provides 'some hope that the demand for consumers- goods may shortly expand over the extremely restricted totals of recent months.
...
KENNEDY’S RETURN—
Joseph B. Kennedy’s remarks upon returning from Great Britain should have put to reart
-	rumors that he was bringing back a new tripartite monetary agreement or that his visit was in some way connected with a program of devaluation. Both were denied in unmistakable
_ terms. In fact, Mr. Kennedy spoke disparagingly of the whole theory of devaluation and expressed the view that the day of devices ( monetary) is gone.
Ths financial district has been discussing mors for some time about the Kennedy visit id even up to the early hours of trading yes-..rday there was some comment to the effect that the market strength was in some way
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.