Purely Gossip: Purely Gossip
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 5, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Saturday’s market was one of the broadest of the advance for not only did it take many stocks to new higbs for the rise, and often for the year, but it embraced more groups and all departments In its scope.
Public buying competed with traders in the buying wave and there was short covering too. to help things along. Street thought that -the short interest had been substantially reduced last week with more covering Saturday. There was a lot of cash buying but trading accounts expanded too and in the last couple of days of the week debits rose to some extent although the Street Bays that switching and profit-tak-
ing has assisted in keeping the marginal situation in hand.
With stocks going into high commission brackets, last week’s commission business was easily the best for the year to date.
« * •
Heard on the Street—
Pretty large attendance Saturday, an unusual crowd for the short session particularly before a holiday • “ • A lot of stop orders are reported in tbe market in the attempt to safeguard profits in the event of a reaction • * • Bond brokers said that junior rail bonds were diflicult to buy at current markets and that sizable orders took prices up from	to 1
point and often more • * • Apparently Southern Railway. B. & O. and Lehigh Valley bonds are attracting the most attention in the lower priced department • • • Houses with foreign connections said that their Influx of cables was unusually large for a short session with most European exchanges closed and they did a fair amount of business Saturday for foreign clients.
Cash Buying—	.
Last week saw a large increase in cash buying and some brokers said that there was a sharp addition to odd lot investment buying in such stocks as American Telephone & Telegraph. General Motors, Allied Chemical, American Can, etc. Furthermore, some buyers of stocks in companies which have either passed or reduced their dividends this year are hopeful that if better things develop in business as the year passes they may be in for larger dividend declarations and, in cases where nothing is paid, a distribution of some sort.
* * •
That Reaction—
With the Industrial averages close to 140, which is a point several bullish chartists said they would attain before a substantial correction movement came alongi some traders were selling stocks and calling "it a day. Some of these suggested they would prefer to stay on the sidelines at this juncture and have buying power when the inevitable reaction took place rather than follow securities up to further dizzy heights. Street felt there was more general bullishness about as the week ended and perhaps more expectation of a further advance when the holiday terminates than has been exhibited a few days ago which in itself made wary traders cautious. Be that as it may the public is in the market in a much larger way than in many a month past and its buying was insatiable right up to the close Saturday.
. * • •
Brokerage Profits—
Some of the stock exchange firms with more leverage as a result of stiff economies were able to end June with fairly substantial profits despite the little or no monies made earlier in the month.
* * *
Rapid Fire Work—	,
A trader who had made considerable money on the short aide in the past year admitted that the advance had caught him to the extent of taking a large part of his previous gains but he had gone long of stocks early this week and had replaced a part of his losses.
* * *
More Pointers—
There are more pointers heard around board ___Meoss turn U> Paas Twelve
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
—_ , Continued from Paffe Fifteen rooms. A phenomenon of the early phase of the current advance was the absence of pointers among clients. Brokers believe that this was due to the broadness of the rise. Wire houses, however, report that plenty of out-of-town customers are as avid as ever in inquiries about stock which sell at $15 and under.
• * *
Rotation Trading—
That trading is getting broader is indicated by the rotation of activity as traders switch from one group into another. At the beginning of the current advance industrials were for some little time the main trading base. This has gradually broadened until not only all three departments, utilities. Industrials and railroads have their moments but groups within these receive specific attention from the day to day traders as well as - the public. That the spot news is finding ready reflection in prices is indicated by the fact that advances in non ferrous metal prices, scrap, etc., have been immediately followed by activity and strength in the respective groups.
—Ths bboad stxbet Gossip.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.