Markets Advance On Assurance Of Stable Dollar: Investment Capital ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 22, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Markets Advance
On Assurance Of Stable Dollar
Investment Capital Comes Out Of Hiding, Giving Evidence Of Improved Feeling
Gold Positions Liquidated
Major International security and commodity markets advanced yesterday as dollar devaluation fears disappeared. There were signs that international investment capital might be coming out of hiding to seek profitable employment—a graphic demonstration of the depressing part which general uncertainty had played in world business conditions.
Long positions in gold, gold shares and sterling, which recently had been built up as a hedge against dollar and other currency devaluations, were rapidly being liquidated. In the fare of sharply rising stock and commodity prices in all major financial centers, decisive declines were registered in gold shares on the New York, London and Toronto exchanges and the price of gold fell 8 cents in the London open market.
Behavior of the foreign exchanges confirmed that international capital again was moving to centers where it could be profitably employed, in sharp contrast with past week when it sought protection alone. Secretary of Treasury Mor-genthau’s incisive denial ’ Monday that the United States contemplates devaluation of the dollar was generally credited with the sudden return of confidence which spread throughout all world markets.
More Foreign Buying of Securities
A feature of this phase was the appearance of general foreign buying of American securities for the second day in succession.
Industrial stocks on the New York market, as measured by the Dow-Jones averages, closed with a net gain on the day of 2.73 at 121.34; rails, 21.51, up 0.81, and utilities. 19.60. up 0.24.
The London and Paris markets also exhibited great strength. Industrial stocks in the London Financial Times’ average closed at 104.7. up 1.7 and rails, 52.0, a gain of 0.8. The Paris bourse closed strong, with heavy gains in domestic industrials.
A 1,460,000 Share Day
Trading volume increased appreciably on the New York markets, with the Stock Exchange experiencing a 1,460,000-share day. Issues traded broadened out to 862, against 774 in Monday’s strong market and 568 last Friday. Curb Exchange business was the largest in several weeks at 191,000 shares.
Commodities on North American markets boomed along with stocks in early trading, but some, notably wheat at Chicago, ran into heavy profit-taking late in the afternoon. The Dow-Jones commodity futures average, however, closed at 48.34. a net gain of 0.05 on the day.
A measure of the strength of foreign commodity markets was given by Reuter’s United Kingdom commodity index which closed at J 36.8, an advance of 2.3 points over Monday’s 134.5 close. The Amsterdam Bourse, always sensitive to commodity prices, drew its chief strength from the buoyancy in these markets. De Telegraaf’s security index jumped to 227.09 rrom 223.82.
The Copper Markets
New York copper futures prices reacted under heavy profit-taking to close three points lower to four points higher. However, exporr prices advanced to 9.075 cents near the close and volume amounted to 5,300 tons. The London metal market was exceptionally strong, with sharp advances in both standard and electrolytic copper.
Other leading commodities on North American markets closed as follows: New York cotton futures eight to 10 higher m one of the broadest trading sessions in some time; cotton-Pfeose turn to page B, column 3
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
—	— f Continued from First Fage)
seed oil, up five to nine points; Chicago wheat* % to 1% lower; Winnipeg wheat, % to % higher; cocoa off three to eight; rubber* 21 to 28 points higher after experiencing broad general buying; silk trade, heaviest In several weeks, prices unchanged to 2% cents higher; hides, up 11 to off three.
The steady selling of major currencies, notably sterling, which brought persistent strength to the dollar, also may bring gold to this country in coming weeks as a result of the flow of investment funds to the United States.
Recovery Here Held the Key
International quarters laid great emphasis upon the sharp recovery in prices, both security and commodities, in New York. For the past several months it has been increasingly clear that developments in the United States have been responsible for decline in business activity elsewhere and it is felt abroad that recovery here would be signal for a new upturn for the world as a whole.
Purely domestic developments were not alone in bringing about the general improvement yesterday. Increasing emphasis here and abroad is being laid upon the closing of the French frontiers to further shipments of war materials to Spain
Conviction is growing that European governments at last are making a definite, determined attempt to bring the Spanish civil war to a speedy liquidation* thus removing one of the outstanding danger spots.
French Control Acts
Capital shifts brought important changes in the foreign exchanges. The French withdrew balances from London to Paris to such an extent that French Control was forced to buy an estimated £1,000.000 of sterling to prevent the frame from rising unduly. In New York, the franc partly reflected weakness in sterling by declining % point to 2.7SS cents.
Sterling was under pressure from all sides, and closed at S4.95 7/16 for a net loss of 1U cents. The Swiss, who last week were actively bullish on sterling, yesterday were active sellers and were buying both Swiss francs and dollars, resulting in a jump of 1 points to 22.98 cents for the Swiss franc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.