Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 14, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
authority yesterday was recommending the sale of corn and the purchase of wheat on the assumption that a similar trend would follow in the event of hostilities- The trend even without war is in that direction anyway, this authority believes. Suggestions v. » made that rubber, cotton, cocoa and hide markets be avoided tempararily.
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Stocks suffered their worst setback since last March as foreign developments brought on a wave of liquidation. More than a million ■hare* changed hands in the last hour, the biggest turnover for this period since last October, and the weight of offerings became so intense that trading in General A'lotors had to be suspended for four minutes shortly before the close. The tape fell behind floor transactions and kept pounding out the record of dealing* for fully fifteen minutes after 3 p. to.. The industrial averages lost six points at 134 19. Rails were off 1.74 points to 24.91 and utilities lost 0.68 points to 18.05.
The market was a confused affair from the start. Prices were little changed in the initial dealings but shortly after the opening there was an uprush in some of the pivotal industrials. This move failed to attract similar strength in rails and utilities though there was some improvement in the latter. Prices backed away from their earlier highs and became Irregular around the noon hour and the mar-jtet appeared to deliberate the fact that European stock exchanges were not giving a favorable interpretation to the Hitler speech.
Several events provoked the afternoon selling. Details regarding the weakness on th* French Bourse together with official statements regarding the economic situation impressed Wall Street with ths fact that the French market was weaker than was at first appreciated. Then, there was the report that Lloyds of London would meet later this week to consider discontinuing war risk insurance. The Sudeten ultimatum to the Czechoslovakian gover.imcm demanding withdrawal of martial law was the straw thAt broke the camel’s back. In the last hour the market was in steady retreat. Losses hit the ’low priced issues as well as the higher priced industrials. Percentage-wise some of the lower priced groups Buffered worse setbacks than the leaders.
Grains advanced sharply but the commodities futures index showed little change on the day. Bonds were easier.
CHARTISTS—
Chartists found technical warnings in the failure of rails and utilities to participate in the early strength displayed by industrials. Market movements had narrowed down to a point where the industrial average, which had been carrying the mam burden of sustaining the market, required support from rails and utilities. Monday’s weakness in second grade rail bonds had checked rail common stocks and when rails again hung back, leading industrial shares quickly eased from their morning highs.
The poor action of foreign markets also had chartists worried. It was noted that the London
averages recorded a decline in
Financial Times	_
Industrials to new low levels for the current move and only a small margin above the March lows for those averages. British industrials dropped 1.2 points to 100.3 yesterday against the March low of 97.8. Rails at 42.3 have been hovering around their low of the year of 41.9 established
last month.
HOLDING CROPS— from the remarks of S. T. Bledsoe,
FARMERS
Judging president of Atchison, the movement of grains is not as large as it should be in view of the bumper harvest. Grain and other agricultural products are moving in proper proportion to other commodities, Mr. Bledsoe said, but total loadings of these products has not gained much in relation to bumper crops.
The export demand for grain, of course, has been quite poor as the AAA, through its Federal Surplus Commodities Corp, operations has found out. The poor demand and low prices probably have resulted in farmers holding grain and other agricultural crops on the farm. However, the war scare put wheat up sharply yesterday.
FOREIGN OPERATIONS—
Curiously enough, three of tffe leading international houses reported yesterday that they were buyers of stock for foreign clients on balance. This was due more to accident than anything else for a large number of orders had been placed ftxarply under the market and were resting there without regard to developments in the foreign news. These orders were executed in the last hour selling wave. One house, for instance, reported that the Continent was selling stocks slightly on balance up to the last half hour when buying orders were executed in sufficient volume to make foreign clients net purchasers on the day. Another house had a similar experience. Selling from the Continent was almost suspended in the last hal£ hour but the execution of standing orders made foreigners purchasers in the ratio of about to one during the last half hour of
three shares trading.
COMMODITIES—
There is considerable interest in at the moment^and several houses were busy up to a late hour yesterday answering inquiries of speculators who have been disposing of some of their stock holdings and preparing to put some of their funds into the popular war commodities, such as sugar and wheat. Recalling the 1914 experience when r spread of 60 cents was quickly recorded between corn and wheat, one
commodities
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.