Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 29, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13	. . .	.	,....................>...(	...
Abreast of the Market
HOW THEY STAND-
Increased Earnings: Industrials . /		Since Sept. 1; 	 5	Additions yesterday , 1 ■
Ralls 		......	9	
Utilities 			 17	1
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 		..... 106	3
Rails ;			.L...	65	1
Utilities			......	49	;	7
' ♦		
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
Wednesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, one stock made a new high and eight stocks made new lows for the year 1938. New High—
Am SaaU ... New Lows—
Am Cmt 8 DI . Ob Ot W pt auiMts pt. ..
BlnSe A D'eb P Victor Chun Nat Bd a Slur. White IU M > Radio B Or
By Robert Laffan
Hitler’s eleventh hour call for a four-power conference saved Wednesday’s market from what threatened to be a bad spill and brought a rousing rally that caused dealings in Chrysler and General Motors to be suspended temporarily while specialists attempted to execute the ©rders.
Wall Street awaited the opening of the market with the darkest forebodings for stock prices had broken badly in London and the British pound was off more than 10 cents. Losses of 2 to 3 points were fairly commonplace in the initial dealings, but liquidation failed to follow up that setback and many issues moved higher in comparatively quiet dealings. The market’s behavior was considered rather peculiar by tape observers but the explanation was soon forthcoming in the announcement frqp London that Prime Minister Chamberlain had received the Hitler invitation while he was in the midst of his emergency address to the House of Commons.
Instantly the market was transformed into seething activity and wild bidding for stocks. The tape fell behind floor transactions, necessitating use of the '‘flash" system of quoting, Indicating that the tape was at least five minutes behind floor transactions. Orders for Chrysler, General Motors and U. S. Rubber were bunched and when the transactions finally appeared on the tape they were in 10,000. to 15,000 share lots for these pivotal issues. Gains of 1 bo more than 5 points were registered against the morning lows. The Dow-Jones average gained 3.49 points on the day in the industrial section and a full point in the rails while utilities were up 0.75 points. Trading was more subdued in the afternoon dealings but most issues remained fairly_close to their highs. .
There was" frenzied trading in the commodity markets as well. Grains lost ground and rubber staged a swift recovery from its earlier loss. Sugar prices lost their early strength and declined on the day. The Dow-Jones index of commodities futures finished the day unchanged, gains and losses within that index balancing. Bond prices stiffened after early losses had been scored.
» » »
INTERN ATIONAL HARVESTER—
. Sluggish market action of International Harvester is a reflection of the limited improvement in the farm equipment Industry thus far. The Milwaukee division of that company announced resumption of operations beginning October 1, but apparently the plant has not built up any important bank of orders, for only 200 men will be employed as against 4,000 just before that division closed down on August 15.
Farm equipment issues generally have not been among the stronger features of the market. Deere spurted recently with the announcement that a dividend of $1.35 was to be paid on the common, but the rise in the stock has not carried it out of the range of recent months and it is still below the levels of the first quarter of this year.
Several of the Steet firms do not regard the farm equipment industry’s prospects with as much favor as other lines, notwithstanding the government's continued efforts to bolster farm purchasing power.
• • •
RAIL TRAFFIC—
The recovery in railroad traffic is still erratic, but special influences have been at work in the past week which account for the estimate that the gain will be less than seasonal. On preliminary figures loadings for the week ended September 24 will gain about 2,000 cars over the preceding period to 662,000 cars as against £40,000 a year ago. The eastern roads have not done so well due to the floods in New England and the trucking strike in New York City. Such a showing as that outlined would bring about a slight lowering in the Dow-Jones index to 72 from 73.8 the week before. Prior to Labor Day the index stood at 70.4, so, in spite of recent handicaps, the current showing represents some Improvement since the end of last month.
• • •
of less active trading to give more attention to the fundamentals of earning power rather than to changing opinions on the war situation. It is pointed out that while the war threat has been generally a retarding influence, it may have stimulated or at least sustained certain issues which were expected to benefit from an outbreak of hostilities.
Over the next several weeks the market should be preparing to discount third quarter earnings statements and whatever measure of additional seasonal recovery in different industries that may come along. The assumption is that recovery will proceed irregularly rather than In a straight line and that in any event it would be better to shape market policies with this idea in view. Normally, the best type of accumulation is not conducted on 24-hour decisions.	'
. • • • ■
BETHLEHEM STEEL—
Bethlehem Steel is being favored by those who are looking for further expansion in steel production before the year ends. Steel earnings are expected to show highly mixed results as a consequence of the changes in the basing point price system. Bethlehem is outstanding in that the changes certainly have not injured the company’s competitive position and on the contrary, with its dominant position in the eastern market, it may enjoy an advantage over plants further west that, cannot enter this market.
Bethlehem's pay point is relatively low and its new plants have reduced costs considerably. It would not be surprising If the company is one of the few among the major companies to show profits for the third quarter.	’
EARNINGS—
Some brokers are cautioning clients to conduct accumulation carefully and during periods
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.