Purely Gossip--: Purely Gossip
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 17, 1938; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Purely Gossip
Some thought yesterday's weak market was due to events In Germany and possible consequences. Whatever the cause, the recent caution and profit-taking gained headway, with trading much more active on the decline than during the earlier firmness which did not “follow through."
Brokers were not bearish and reported that selling still came largely from traders and "small fellows". Some went so far as to say there would be substantial buying by larger purchasers if the market goes any lower.
Trade picture continued fairly satisfactory although in some districts there was talk of leveling oft from the recent rapid improvement. Thia, however, does not include operations by heavy industries which are still offering the "best bet" for the bulls.
• • •
■ stNtiti s>t*	—
Selling for tax purposes is still going forward and probably will increase in volume the remainder of the year « • • Some technicians hold that industrial averages may get into the 145-150 zone before selling ceases’* * • Some thought rails experienced some selling as a result of the adverse tax ’decision against New Jersey railroads • » * There was some heavy selling of a few usually inactive issues which Street thought might be for tax purposes. In at least one case it represented switching from one stock into another » » » There was some short selling reported when the market was higher in initial trading as a number of traders are bearish for the time being. They look for a trading market with fairly wide swings the rest of November.
• • »
Traders to Sidelines— ,
With a number of traders on the sidelines as a result of the selloff the past three sessions, there is still a strong atmosphere of caution about the Street. At the same time brokers were not particularly impressed with the selling of the past few sessions and said it did not represent important offerings but rather the opinions of traders who thought some groups had rushed ahead too rapidly which had rendered them vulnerable, at least for the time being. It is felt by some observers that while the market 1b going through a test for the immediate movements w’hlch may result in irregularity and perhaps a lower level, the main trend has not been changed and on the trade news, the bulls still have the best of the argument.
• * •
Koya I Typewriter—
Royal Typewriter's plants are working over-Pleaae Turn to Pago Twelve
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Purely Gossip
--------Continued from Page Fifteen------- time in an effort to keep pace with expanding total of orders, particularly for the new portable and No. 1 model machines. The latter is said to be the best seller the company has ever brought out. Orders are from all sections of the country and an excellent Christmas trade in portables is indicated. Foreign business is spotty.
.» » *
Good for Commissions—	’
A sharp advance in the average price of the ten most active stocks to 42, a new high in recent months was noted Tuesday, Tliis indicated a good commission day for most brokerage firms and it is notable that only one low-priced stock was in the list while interest was centered in several pivotals with General Motors heading the group. Although the averages closed off on the day the ten most actives included seven plus signs.
* * *
Rail Earnings—
Selling at 24, Delaware & Hudson was at a new high and was quite active. The advance in the stock follows October estimates of the best month’s earnings in years. There has been buying of other rails on similar expectations and buyers of Illinois Central are talking of an excellent showing for that roaij for last month.
• • •
U. S. Rubber ^Dividend Outlook—
U. S. Rubber preferred sold at a new high. Some enthusiasts had expected directors to take action on a dividend Tuesday, but conservatives in the Street do not look for the stock to resume dividends until early next year. Reports persist, however, that something will be done before close of this year, perhaps from the tax angle. All reports, in the trade indicate that the company's business has been steadily improving in the past two months.
—The Broad Street Gossip
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.