Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 27, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 15
Abreast of
the Market
Market Diary
HOW THEY STAND—
C*D mooej renewal ....... Time meoey, BO days ________
Acceptances. Bo days........
CominercftaJ paper .........
Fr*o«, cablet ..............
Sterling, cables ...........
New York bank rate ..... Reserve System ratio ....
Copper, domestic ...........
X>ed. New York .............
Stiver. New York ...........
Rteel scrap. Pitts Na. 1. • Zinc. East St- Laois ....
Yu tvrest
Coffee, Rio. March .........
Cam. May ...................
Cotton, Marcta .............
Hides. Marek ...............
Oata. Ma> ..................
Rubber. Mareb............ •	•
Silk, Mareb ................
Surar. raw. No. 3, Moren Ztn. Standard, Mareb .... Wheat, Mas* ................
Wool tops. July.............
-	Wednesday — n	
1B3S	' 1% -	1*4*% .032^5 4.99’* l<-v 80.1*c	1837 1% 1*4% ft ®*4% *4®1% 1V4% 80.4%
10*4-10*4	13
4.30	e.oo
44Ai 14.00-14.50	1B.75-20.3&
6.00	e.oo-e.io
4.4B	7XO
	1OOM*
8.44	12.72
8.58	14.89
	*b**
14.86	21.08
1.48	1.93 Mt
3.z«	3417
40.80	4v.au
9S%	128*4
7541	108.5
Increased Earnings:
Industrials ............
Rails .................„
Utilities ...............
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials .............
Rails ...................
Utilities ...............
Since Jan. 1 50
4
25
52
25
18
Additions Yesterday 7
1
4
i
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—
Wednesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, no stock made a new high and 29 stocks made new lows for the year 1937-1938.
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
The President's opposition to wage cuts, and his recommendation that price reductions in mass-production industries be made out of profits, met an unfavorable reception in Wall Street Wednesday. Some of those industries have little or no profits currently, and the prospect of government insistence on high wage-low price scales was disturbing, coming as it did at a time when the market has been resting in a delicate position, uncertain over where to make the next move.
Large scale liquidation came in at the opening. A block of 5,000 Steel common changed hands at a loss of nearly two points and deep recessions were noted through the industrial list. Pivotal Industrials that have been attempting to improve recently suffered materially. Coppers, motors, electrical equipments, chemthals, movies and building shares were affected. Sears-Roebuck. Chrysler, Johns Manville and Allied Chemical were especially weak.
Utilities faded rapidly. Some of these issues broke through support levels that had stood the test of several months of uncertain fluctuations. North American and American Water Works were cases in point.
Rails used in the Dow-Jones averages dropped below their December lows of 28.91, finishing at 28.31 for a loss of 1.03 points. Industrials were off 5.10 points and utilities dropped 0.66 points.
The bond market continued weak, dropping to new low ground. Commodities also were unsettled. Activity in stocks picked up materially, and the full day’s volume was 1,620,000 shares, the largest in weetes.
* « •
FUMP-PMNHNG-------
The President’s threat that If wages were cut this winter or next spring the government would have to consider other means of creating purchasing power was not overlooked, but temporarily its significance was given less weight than the obvious fact that the New Deal economic views and those of business were as far apart as ever. Most of the market hopes recently have rested on faith in an ultimate business-political approach to the problems left by the business recession. That is the only basis upon which confident, long pull accumulation in the market could be attempted. Another wave of government spending may be temporarily stimulating but it is expected—if it materializes—to deepen the distrust of private capital.
Even at this late date it is believed a more
New Lows—
Am PAL 6 as Am PAL 6 pt Atchison ot..
Cb Ort Wort Crane Co. ..
Cutter H*m*r Dra&ser 5Ug A El A SIUBtc Ind Erie lat pt Gen Cable pt.
CU Cent L L. . Interebem CD. Jewel Tee . . . Mln Hon Res Myer* Bros... Nat Steel . .. Nat Supply... Outlet Co .... Fblla Co 6 pt. Pitt* FtWACtu
Roan AnPtope 81OM 8befflel4. Spicer Pt A. .
Union Paetflc. Dnlnn Pae pf. Vulcan Detin.. Wilson A Co.. WorPAM cvprp A'or PAM pr pf
sustained market upturn could be built upon cooperation than upon another pump-priming effort. There probably are many long-pull investors who would be disturbed by the latter, accepting it as an act that tossed away the last vestige of hope, and their liquidation on any rise would compete with the fear-inspired buying of those seeking a hedge against inflation.
•	• a
SMALL BUSINESS CONFERENCE—
Some market followers are not convinced that the latest selling in the market necessarily is Initiating another important decline. There is an outside chance that the view's of small business men will prevail with the White House where those of larger interests seem to have failed. Politically, the small business man has somewhat better standing and his ideas cannot be very different from those of larger industrialists for his problems are identical. Many small business men also have more influence with Congress.
...
WAGES AND PRICES-----
Investors and business men were discouraged to note that the White House held the opinion that wage rates and purchasing; power were synonymous. Actually, purchasing power and employment are closer akin and wage rates are merely terms over which business and labor can wrangle until the depression deepens. Tho discouraging part about the comments rested in the fact that they threatened to widen differences of opinion between business and labor at a time when both are trying to agree as to terms. At the same time, market fears that profits would be ground beneath high costs and low selling prices may have been a little exaggerated for the present for that is precisely what has happened over the past several months and that is what produced the market decline. Few price Increases in industry were sufficient to offset higher wage costs and when volume of business fell away profits almost disappeared. It is Illogical to expect the market to discount the same thing twice, but prolonged wrangling and the lack of an economic program to restore business and employment, can be disturbing and delay recovery.
•	• « " ARTIFICIAL PRICES—
The managed enonomy is running into many
inconsistencies and in this respect some of the business views and methods have not been free from error. For instance, the Administration recently gave strong intimations that it favored a rate mcrease for the railroads. Steel companies hardly can lower prices if the freight rate on iron ore, coal and other raw materials is increased. Transportation is a big factor in steel costs for many heavy products must be hauled and cross-hauled before the finished product is delivered to the consumer.
On the business side of it. there Is the current move to restrict the supply of certain basic commodities. This program is followed more abroad than here but it reacts on this market when the rubber, tin, copper and other raw material producers shut down on the supply to hold up the price. In this country, industry is restricted from such practices by the anti-trust laws, but there are Administration laws and subsidies for reduced output of agriculture. Labor has a right to demand an artificial price for its services so long as producers can command an artificial price for materials which must be consumed. Perhaps the fault lies not with managed economy so much as the lack of management.	’
• • •
DBIDENDS—
The market’s troubles de not lie entirely In the broader economic problems. An unsettling influence that is closer to home is the rapidity with which unfavorable dividend news is ap-
pearing. Yesterday there were many dividend omissions, including American Water Works common, Allegheny Steel. Anaconda Wire & Cable. Poor Class A stock and New Haven Clock preferred.
This procession of reduced or omitted dividends is getting to be a long one. So^ie of the others that have appeared recently include Continental Can, Owens Illinois Glass. American Rolling Mi!!. Indust: lai Rayon. Celanese, Lehigh Portland Cement. American Machine & Foundry and National Tea.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.