Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 20, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
BOW THEY STAND—
Market Diary
CfcB cniin. renewal ...... Ttme tzMney. 90 days ..... Aeeeptnnem. no day* ..... Cecunerda) paper .........
France, cablre ............ Sterling, cables .......
New York bank rate ...... Reserve System ratio ..... Copper, domestic ........ Lead. New York............
Silver. New York ..... ... Steel scrap (Pitts. No. 1> . Zinc. East St. Loots .....
Futures;
Coffee. fUo. December ... Corn. December .........
Cotton. December ....... . Hides, old, December ..... Oats, December............
Rubber. December....... .
Silk. raw. old. December . Sugar, raw. Ns. 3, March. Tin, Standard. December.. Wheat. December ...........
ool top*, December......
	
less	1SS7
	1«
	194*
	
	
.OS69A	.8838
4.8094	4.989b
	■0.0$
83.3%	
1094	14
B.1O	8.80
1494014%	
4.96	7.25
4.84	8.23
	83%
7.84	8.83
10.SO	33.42
28	30%
14.17	18.44
1.88	1.7194
3.86	2.33
43.95	57.40
85	105%
79.7	103.4
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Offer of the British-French governments to grant Hitler his Czechoslovakian demands brought a prompt upturn in stock prices starting the new week. Such a proposal, while it did not remove the possibility that Czechoslovakia might fight it out alone, or that Russia might assist her, indicated that Great Britain and France were willing to go to great lengths to preserve peace.
Bidding for stock was not exactly spirited. The upturn earn* largely with the initial dealings when prices responded to the higher level for international issues abroad. Thereafter, the market moved in a comparatively narrow pnee range, neither giving much ground nor gaining any. Coppers did rather well in response to another mark-up in the domestic copper price to 10% cents. Motors and chemicals did not finish at their best Levels but they had gains of I1/- to 2 points in active issues. Rubbers, electrical equipments, steels, mail order issues and miscellaneous groups shared in the improvement.
Utilities snapped back with a gain of 0.62 points to 17.96. Rails were up 0.74 points to 24.75 and industrials gained 2.28 points to 134.10. Bonds were rather slow in participating in the upturn at first but the general price level stiffened later in the session. The turn in the war news brought a reaction in several of the commodities that have been bought as a hedge recently. Grains were down fairly sharply.
8ince
Increased Earnings:	Sept. 1
Industrials 	 Rails 		. .	9 . .	9
TTHHtlee -			.. 11
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 	.....	. .	78
Rails 		. .	49
Utilities 		.. 28
Additions yesterday 1 ' 2
6
5
2
NEW SIGHS AND LOWS—
Monday, on the New York Stock Exchange, two stocks made new highs and no stock made a new low for the year 1938.
New Highs—
Aro Can pX. .	Coft, tna ....
Into two distinct phases. Taking .March as the starting point, a normal technical reaction from the advance could go considerably further than it has up to the present and still be within tl>e limits of a secondary move. However, those who lean to the view that the advance started in June would find their calculations upset by such a development but they could always fall back upon the claim that perhaus, after all, it was in "March that the upturn started.
• • •
WESTINGHOUSE electric—
Westinghouse Electric’s bonus of 1% for September for its wage and salary earners, the same as paid in August, does not indicate that company’s earnings have as yet experienced a pick up in line with expanding business activity. However, incoming business is showing a slight pick up and it is shipments that probably have fallen off, thereby holding back an improvement in earnings. The company entered this year with large unfilled orders that were carried over from 1937 and shipments against that business supported earnings for a while. Residential building has been improving and that should help Westinghouse Electric’s position. However, the outlook for increased public utility expenditures is obscure and there is nothing on the budgets of the latter companies at the moment which suggests any immediate expansion.
The Street is estimating that Westinghouse Electric may earn from $3.25 to $3.50 a share this year.
BUILDING—
Though improvement apparently has begun for residential building, there exist conflicting influences which are likely to affect continuance of expansion, Oliphant & Co. points out in a study of the industry. Half a dozen favorable and unfavorable arguments are summarized. Among the favorable are: reduced financing costs; expansion in both contracts and permits and knowledge that there is desire if not actual demand for new housing on a large scale; average rents no longer are cheap compared with cost of building; wider distribution of public buying power resulting from present governmental policies; the very magnitude of the construction industry generates momentum for itself since improvement there quickly increases national prosperity: according to long experience building construction, particularly housing, proceeds in major cycles of 15 to 20 years duration, with minor interruptions.
On the unfavorable side are the following: principal large potential demand is for houses costing $3,000 or less, which it appears impracticable to provide; values in other goods, like automobiles, compete actively tor spendable funds; building costs except financing are not relatively low and rising local taxation is discouraging home ownership; antiquated building codes, zoning restrictions and foreclosure laws in many cases present obstacles especially to speculative developments; through prolonged inactivity and other causes skilled workers have diminished in number and this could limit any boom in building; building is disorganized into thousands of interests, many of which conflict, and the lack of the leadership that is found in production of automobiles, steel, etc. works against progress toward efficiency and economy.
* • *
OILS—
The oil industry’s position is a peculiar one currently. There has been under-production of crude oil to the extent of about 200,000 barrels a day but the industry still has an excess of 4.000,000 barrels of gasoline as against a year ago. Under normal conditions that excess might not be expected to depress prices, but retailers and jobbers of gasoline have been holding their gasoline purchases dowii to actual needs. The recent lowering in prices in East Texas crude may have influenced cautious buying policies but that move was made to bring the East Texas market into line with other mid-continent areas.
While gasoline stocks for the week ended September 10 increased by 346,000 barrels, Texas producers do not believe the refining industry definitely has entered the period for building of motor fuel storage. The “curtailed rate of production of crude is expected to hold down supplies at that end and thereby check the usual accumulation of gasoline inventories. It also is expected that the softness in the wholesale gasoline market will tend to restrain accumulation of gasoline supplies.
STEEL—
The bulge of two points In steel operations, as compiled by the American Iron A Steel Institute. lifted production schedules to a new recovery high at 47.3% of capacity. This upturn in actual production coincided with rather mixed accounts of the steel outlook. The steel trade appears to have abandoned all hope of raising prices and, on the contrary, is engaged in competitive cutting for business. First, reinforcing steel prices weakened some weeks ago and that tendency gradually has spread. The volume of sheet and strip business has not been satisfactory but the motor industry is counted upon to buy more actively by the end of the month. Possibly the recent labor troubles in automotive plants have retarded the flow of orders. Tin plate production is well below normal for this time of the year and this usually is one of the more profitable branches of steel making.
• • • „ TECHNICAL BEHAVIOR—
Assuming that the market advance got under way on June* 18. the industrial average has lost about 45% of the recovery from that date and consequently certain followers of technical form are inclined to regard the market as a purchase on weak spots. Of course, if weakness were to extend to any considerable point below recent levels the thought that the market was merely correcting the June-July advance might have to undergo some revision.
Some followers of charts regard the movement from March to July as one move and consider that a market move of approximately four to five months duration should not be broken up
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.