Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 9, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
HOW THKV STAND-
Market Diary
O*B nioatj renewal ...... Time miBty, M> S*y*...... Acceptance*. 90 Saar* .... Coanmerda] paper ....... France, cable* ..............
Slerttn*. cable* ............
New T«*rfa Mak rate..........
Reserve Sytem ratio ....
Copper, XkotneAfic ..........
I<ea<l. New York ............
fUfver, New York .. ...... Steel scrap. Pitt*. Nn. 1.. Zinc, East St. Ixmls ........
Futsmj
Coffee, Rk>, May ......... Com, Ma> ..............
Cotton, May .........
Hide*, June .............. Oats. Blay ...........
Rubber. Majr...............-
SfTk. raw. Maw .	-.......
Sugar, raw. No. S. Maj-. Tin t«4taa«2a?d) Blay ... -• Wheal, Mnj ..................
tlool top*. May .............
Increased Earnings: Industrials ........	April 1 	 46
Ralls 		.... 2-
Utilities 			 24
Decreased Earnings:	
Industrials 			 58
Rails 			 10
Utilities 			 15
yesterday
i
4
Since Additions
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
Friday, on the New York Stock Exchange, no stock made a new high and 10 stocks made new lows, for the year 1938.
New Lows—
Crucible Stt pf Ort Wess So* Ort W sus P* Pitt St I pt
Pub Ser NJ7pl Pub usr *»JOcx Sbarp A Oo pt
Smith A O- . Rte OH Kan. . WewonOlS pf
BY ROBERT LAFFAX
Reports of renewed “pump priming” preparations in Washington gave the market an uplift yesterday, leading industrials gaining from 1 to nearly 4 points. Activity improved moderately with the rise. Prices were higher from the opening and there was quite an uprush in the nrst half hour or so of trading, after which the market settled down to digest these gains.
Government bonds were easier in the early dealings but they became steadier later. Commodities generally moved higher. Further strength in London stock prices before our opening helped materially in the improving price trena here. Ixmdon has been pushing ahead for the past seven trading dayB and this market has benefitted from the relaxation in selling pressure from that quarter.
Regardless of how investors felt about renewed ‘’pump priming” at this time and its long run dangers, there was a disposition to assume that the immediate effects would cause equities to rise. The market has had a sevcic cleaning out on the downside and business has been a little steadier lately, if not positively improving. It was assumed the further price advances could occur If only for technical reasons. President Roosevelt’s refusal to comment upon plans for advancing $1,500,000,000 to cities and municipalities, to be repaid over a period possibly as long as 50 years, did not discourage the market. The President did not deny that such a proposal was being considered and it was assumed that he was allowing public sentiment a chance to develop.
Leading steels, motors, chemicals and coppers closed at the best levels of the day. Bond prices also moved up moderately.
be tested in the courts and that report coincided with liquidation of some substantial quantities of sugar. *
* • •
CAPITAL GOODS—
The Iron Age index of production and distribution of capital goods was slightly higher at the close of March than at the beginning although the average for the month was a little under February. Nevertheless, this index has been following a. broad sidewise movement since the start of the year and is moderately above the low point reached in January. The comparative steadiness of this index recently is lending a little hope to the possibility that the makings of a reversal in trend may be established.
SPENDING-----
While many in Wall Street conceded that the stock market might work higher for a time on the basis of the latest plans for government spending, the reaction generally was not whoPy a pleasant one. Even speculators who are notoriously short-sighted and willing to play today’s opportunities against tomorrow’s failures did not warm up to the subject with the enthusiasm exhibited four to five years ago.
Some questioned whether a billion and a half to two billions of additional spending at this stage could compensate’ for the possible loss of confidence in high grade bonds An invitation to munciipalities to borrow on a larger sca’e. it was feared, might cause some nervousness among those holding municipal bonds. Many municipalities do not need to be urged greatly to expand their debt and an open lending inflation of the kind suggested in Washington dispatches, assuming Congress and the White House finally approve the plan now under consideration., might encourage reckless borrowing.
EFFECT ON FRANCE—
In France during the past year and one-half, spending has run a losing race with confidence and France has tried larger doses of spending than any we contemplate. There is some question. therefore, whether a spending program in itself can be effective, or whether it doesn’t begin to lose its effectiveness after a time. Goodbody & Co. points out that deficit spending in France now runs about 3.4.rc of national income and amounts to 75% of government income as against deficit spending in the United States amounting to 2.6% of national income and 20% of government income. Yet all that the heavy French deficit spending has accomplished in the past year and one-half (since franc devaluation) has been a rise m commodity prices and in the cost of living amounting to about 20%, a 30% drop in industrial stock prices—to levels 20% below 1932 and a slight easing in general industrial activity.
To approach the French situation, our deficit spending would have to rise to $6,000,000,000 a year, or about $5,000,000,000 above the current amount, the brokerage firm points out, and even assuming such a development we are still not justified m expecting more than a very temporary reflection in prices of commodities and stocks if other basic conditions in political, social trends and business remained unchanged.
CONSTRUCTION—
Figures on engineering construction awards for March make pleasant reading, with a 32% increase over the like month of 1937 and the highest total since March, 1930, according to records of the Engineering News-Record. These figures coincide with reports of increasing activity of FHA offices. During the month, the FHA selected for appraisal home mortgages totaling $95,000,000 for single family dwellings, not including multi-family projects or improvements. In March, a. year ago. the total was $68,045,452. Actual advances for new building usually approximate 85% of mortgages selected for appraisal. On this basis new construction of small homes will approximate $40,000,000 against $19,000,000 in February.
Some of the New York banks report there are increasing signs of building activity in suburban areas. This is apparent from the purchases of large tracts of land by building developers who are preparing for the spring and summer seasons.
• * •
SUGAR— a
Some of the holders of sugar ehares were disappointed to see Secretary of Agriculture Wallace reiterate hie stand of a month ago In opposition to higher sugar prices. In a letter to Senator Brown of Michigan, Secretary Wallace again stressed the fact that American consumers would have to stand an increase in costs of approximately $50,000,000 in order to provide an increase of $1,000,000 of income tor processors. Most commodities were higher yesterday but sugar remained depressed, influenced by the government's repeated etlorts to keep down the price of that commodity. There were rumors current also that tbe constitutionality at tbe farm program was about to,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.