Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 18, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Laffan
was the
By Robert Most striking event of the week exuberance in government bonds in what was supposedly an atmosphere of unadulterated inflation. Some of the Treasury issues were up a full point at times in Saturday’s trading session and that performance eclipsed anything that transpired in other markets. The stock market itself proceeded cautiously but came along by the week-end to a fairly confident close, the only exception being rails and utilities •which appeared to move ahead almost reluctantly and which did not succeed in pushing through to new highs for the move, as did the industrials.
But the main consideration in
Here was a performance that is a tribute to the complexities of the modern banking system. to the curiously Involved way in which inflation operates under current conditions. It is possible that the threat to tax future treasury issues may have had a little part in stimulating demand for outstanding issues of government bonds but that can be dismissed as relatively unimportant. In the future, assuming the taxexempt features are taken away from new government bond issues, there will be two markets for governments, one dealing in tax-exempts and the other in the newer taxable issues. The tax-exempt issues now outstanding presumably v ill always be available for those desiring to purchase them. — •	■	•	-	-
the strength in governments last week was tne indication that excess reserves of Federal Reserve member banks would be lifted to a record high of $3,500,000,000 as a result of reduction in reserve requirements and desterilization of $1,400,000,000 in gold. While there may be some doubt concerning whether private borrowers will take hold of a credit base of that size and build credit inflation on top of it, there can be no doubt that such a total presses strongly upon the government bond market to promote greater ease in money and lower yields than ever. The previous peak in excess reserves was $3,300,000,000 in December, 1935, and it was from there on that the Administration began to worry about the dangerous possibilities for a credit inflation boom. These worries led to deliberate tightening in reserve requirements.
Money goes
into government
	Sine	Additions
Increased Earnings:	April 1	Saturday
Industrials 			...	77	' 9
Rails 			....	9	5
Utilities 		....	49	5
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 			...	123	26
Rails 		...	36	
Utilities 		. ...	29	e
the last time.	_	_	_
bonds, into comparative safe-keeping, for two reasons; first, because the financial economy, the whole set-up, is all wrong, and second, because political reforms frighten "venture” capital. Congress has recognized the second point and has moved to correct it. It is too bad that it, from all indications, has not the same sagacity to recognize the first objection and to vote down "pump priming” as a similar evil. To remove the reforms and leave a national financial structure that is all awry, to add stress and strain to the badly bulging parts, is to do less than half a job of correcting existing evils.
MARKET—
It is hard to conceive how additional billions of deficit financing, how overnight expansion of excess bank reserves can be without effect marketwise. Still, there are sobering elements in the current picture and this time the administration Is playing with carefully balanced forces on both sides. It is like 1933-1934 when there were four to five years of unprecedented deflation behind the whole world, when inflationary actions were bound to succeed because the trade cycle itself was pointing in the right direction. One thing that must be noted is that while we have expanded our excess reserves we have removed the cushion of safety that was to protect us against a European withdrawal of capital. Some time may be needed to observe how well our program sits with Europe.
For the shorter term there is the matter of timing to be considered. The industrial average has already moved up about 22 points from the lows in less than a month and it must contend against an aggregation of generally poor earnings statements which are now being released. Still, on any decided reaction in the near future the current inflationary program should offer some protection against penetration of recent lows for all but the rails. The latter are now showing little inclination to move far above their lows and this will make them more vulnerable in the event of a reaction.
EUROPE—
Other factors had a hand in last week's strength in markets. In the background was a steadily strengthening European situation. The Fopular Front in France gave way to a more conservative administration, the Spanish conflict appeared to be pointed toward early termination with victory for Franco's forces, and the British-Italian differences of the past several years, which have kept leading markets of the world in a state of constant uneasiness; appeared headed for pacification with the signing of the Anglo-Italian pact.
The London stock market paced our market all week with one of the most substantial upturns in years.
DOMESTIC AFFAIRS—
Affairs at home took a turn for the better. On the political side there was already present a well established trend toward conservatism, defeat of the reorganization bill being somewhat comparable to the French action in rejecting Blum's government. Were thia France, rejection of the reorganization proposal would mean turning out the government.
On the other hand, monetary developments here were anything but conservative. Nothing, seemingly, is ever to be wholly consistent in the present economy but there was some satisfaction for the markets to note that the President in his fireside chat had put his approval upon the profit motive for big and little fellows. There will be °pump priming” to be sure, but it will not be a profit-less inflation and business can gather in the profits while it may. or while the stream of government money is running.
* * * *
BIG ORDER—	‘
There is something for everyone in the current program—something for those holding government bonds, for those without a job, for those who believe commodity prices are too low and those who have losses m securities. It remains to be seen whether a program of this kind really can live up to the schedule.
Perhaps the exceptional strength in government bonds Is not altogether desirable. There has been no complaint that government bonds are selling too low; the real problem is to improve materially the more speculative bonds and stocks, to induce a better* market for "venture” money or "junior” money. This money will build the houses and industrial plants that will relieve the government of the necessity of deficit financing. The program cannot succeed if everyone with capital is to rush into government bonds again for that is what happened
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.