Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 23, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Market Diary
StorUax. eg trip* ..........
>ew	Hnb	......
Mt Xir-r« SjBltut nxia .....
Caspar. D—irafla ............
Lr*4. New Tor* ...........
New Tor* .	.....
Nteel »cr»p <nrt». No. 2 > Ztoc, E**t SU »-*—*«-......
Fnnuw:
Coffee. BSo. July ...........
< am. Ja)y .	........
Coctaa, Jaty............
MJAeo. Mevtecnher ........ Oota. July ...	...........
Mabber. July .............
Mik. rev*. Jttbr	.
Netar. raw, No. X.	.
Tin <Stan<l*rt) July . .	.
Ubeat, Jo!)	.	.
Waal tap*, Joly ...	.
IO.SO
By Robert Laffax
^Vith a turnover ot 1,710,000 shares, the best to date for the week, and another uprush in prices, the stock market appeared to be defying laws or gravity yesterday. Traders were in an excited state as those who had taken profits on the first bulge, and those who had missed the move entirely, worried oxer their inability to properly appraise the potentialities •I the market.
Business itself seemed to feel the contagion ©f rising stock prices for there were two successive advances in steel scrap at Pittsbargti during the day, the third advance in two days for a total of 75 cents a ton. Lead, zinc and copper markets reflected in varying degrees nsing enthusiasm and Worth Street reported a good business in textiles. Grain markets, however, remained indifferent to strength in commodities generally.
Volatile industrial shares dealt out punishment unmercifully to bears who had overstayed •their market or who had been waiting for a corrective reaction to extract themselves somewhat less painfully from their unfortunate positions. Comment from ail quarters concerning losses in short positions, coupled with inquiries of what to do about the situation, graphically illustrated the extent to which the bear side had become popular over recent weeks. Unmindful of their plight, stocks such as American Telephone, American Can, du Font, Westinghouse Electric, Union Carbide and Owens Illinois sprang forward from 3 to 5 points and 2 to 3 point gams were commonplace. The Dow-Jones rail average advanced nearly a full point to 22.46 and second grade rail bonds were sharply higher. Utilities also swung into line wholeheartedly with a gain of about three quarters of a point in the average.
• • •
DISTURBED—
Judging from the comment of Wall Street few Individuals have dealt particularly successfully with tbe current market move and there is m great deal of uneasiness that something worthwhile has been missed. Some of the shorts who were treating both Monday’s and Tuesday’s upturn with disdain were greatly disturbed over the vigor of several of yesterday’s moves and were taking losses on part of their commitments. Call brokers who had been offering ©ptions close to the market took precautions
BOW TRFV STAN
Increased Earning*; Industrial* 	 		Since June 1 .. 16 5	Additions Yesterday X
Utilities . 				..	24	“a
Decreased Earnings; .......	..	53	3
Rail* 		...	54	X
UtUiUec 		..	36	4
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
Wednesday, on tbe New York Stock Exchange, 35 stocks made new highs and three stocks made new low* for 1938.
and moved up quotations, notwithstanding gains already recorded in leading stocks. While they stood to lose heavily on some of the paper written recently, their losses were not <s great as might have been expected due chiefly to th? fact that customers generally did not take advantage of some of the offerings made over the past two weeks. The demand for puts, or bear options, was much greater than for calls and thia would indicate that option brokers profited on balance, not so much through their own sagacity, but through the public’s bearishness.
* * •
SOURCE OF BITING—
Source of tbe buying is as much a mystery as the vigorous move itself. There is no doubt that some substantial foreign orders early this week did much to touch off the rise Brokers who are rather closely connected with several of the leading investment trusts reported that there was little buying from those sources; in fact, one unit was reported to have offered a little atnrk on the bulge and was surprised at the ease with which it was absorbed.
Public Interest, however, picked up notably yesterday and there was a keen demand from individuals who have not visited brokerage offices in months Public buying ran largely to low priced issues, and to those stocks that are presumably behind the market.
BUSINESS—
The pick-up in business that accompanied recent price cuts in several hawte lines appears to have broadened in scope, encouraged by the exceptional strength in securities and the improved tone in numerous commodities. Several of the eastern machine tool companies have noted a slightly better demand. This is encouraging because this type of business cannot be identified with consumers goods where the initial improvement was noted. Steel scrap also advanced further yesterday at Pittsburgh and the Chicago district reported a firmer undertone in the metal. The finished steel industry itself has
had order* running recently in excess of production.
Strength in financial markets also has stimulated purchasing agents for large mail order and departments stores into making active inquiry for materials to protect themselves on prices. The mail order and large department steres were among the first to cut their inventories to the bone and they have been holding down stocks since the start of the year.
RAIL WAGE NEGOTIATIONS—
Despite the discouraging obstacle* that have been thrown in the way of railroad wage negotiations, there are still some hope* that a compromise can be effected whereby earners will get some part of the economies they are seeking. Representativs of railroad labor organizations will meet in Washington today to consider the proposal of the earners' joint conference committee asking for a national conference on the proposed 15% wage cut. In Cleveland, A. F. Whitney. president of the Brotherhood of Railway Trainmen, remarked that railroads are barren of argument on the wage matter, being unable to “advance a single fundamental reason for a cut other than the fact that they need money.” However, this excuse in itself is regarded a* fundamental enough and reasonable enough to advance the proposal for a wage reduction and followers of rail securities believe that Mr. Whitney may be adopting a stubborn position merely in order to recede a little, but not too far from the present w’age scale.
In any event, those who are hopeful that rail oommon stocks can join the uptrend m industrials were not entirely dependent upon outcome of the wage conference. Forecasts on rail traffic for the latest reporting week indicated that carloadings were continuing the gain of the preceding week and suggested that a slightly more than seasonal rise might be reported.
• • •
TOBACCO SHARES—
Reason for the rather impressive market performance of tobacco shares over the past sex’eral weeks was supplied by the figures on cigarette production for May showing a gain of 9.*9% over the like month a year ago. The gam was the largest for any month this year. March and April increases had just about effaced losses of January and February, but the bulge in last month’s consumption put the total for the year to date ever & year ago. This high level of consumption will assist the industry to deal with operating costs and increased taxes. In this particular depression, the cigarette companies obxnously have preserved their status as good depression earners and have returned investors generous dividend yields for these times
Cigar consumption lagged in May. dropping a little more than 3% under a year ago.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.