Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 23, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Abreast of the Market
Market Diary
Cdl money renewal ..........
Time money. 00 daja.........
Acceptance*, AO days .... Commercial paper ...........
France, cablet .............
Sterilnr, cablet ...........
New Yorn bank rate .........
Reserve Syatem ratio ....
Copper, Domeetle ...........
I*ad. New York .............
Silver. New York ...........
Steel ecrap, nite. No. 1.. Zinc, Eaat St. Louie .......
Fit I u ret i
Coffee, Rio, July ..........
Com. July ..................
Cotton, July ...............
Hides, June ................
Otte. Julv .................
Rubber, July ...............
Silk, raw, July ............
Suynr. raw. No. 3. July... Tin (Standard) July ........
Wheat. July ................
Wool tope, July ............
1038 i%
.0302% 4.88(1 1% 82.8%
10 4.BO 42% 12.30-13.00
4.23
•Friday-------,
1837 1%
.0143%
4.B3M,
14%
8.00 44% 22.00-22.30 8.30-7.00
6.72
113 13.21 16.87 44% 23.10
1.83
2.31
33.83 ll«% 109.6
BY ROBERT
to move ahead briskly, stock market there was a larger decommon stocks from the outset but buying was scattered and selective.
drawing away from the January low. Reynolds slumped rather sharply last month but since then has been improving. Shorts have attempted to play these issues from time to time in recent months, figuring that the industry was about to enter the stage of the depression where consumption of cigarettes would fall away badly. However, the March consumption ■figures were something of a surprise, showing the first increase over a year ago in three months. The normal depression tendency tor roll-your-own and smoking tobacco sales to improve at the expense of cigarette sales failed to appear; in fact, sales of the latter gained as against a decrease for the former.
No doubt the 10-cent cigarette is again making some headway and this may have bolstered the showing for cigarette sales. However, the trade is by no means on agreement on this point and some contend that competition from the cheap brands has made little progress.
• * »
other metals re-
LAFFAN
Broad advances took place in Friday’s stock market session and carried many issues up to within close range of last Saturday’s highs. The Dow-Jones industrial average shot up more than three points to finish at 118.52. as against Saturday's peak of 121. Rails were up a little less than a full point and utilities gained ncarlv three-quarters of a point, the latter topping last week’s peak level.
While the stock market’s performance was inspiring, it really was a sideshow compared with the display in the bond market where some sensational advances took place. The government’s easy money program for the first time reached down to medium grade issues and gave them a decided uplift, while first grade Issues continued
In the mand for the early
Motor issues lagged and aircraft issues ran into profit-taking after their recent advances. However, brisk buying of copper issues developed before the morning was over. Large blocks of Phelps Dodge changed hands at higher prices and Anaconda, Kennecott and
sponded. Electrical equipments, mail order issues and steels gained ground and the motor issues shook off their lethargy and moved along with the main body of stocks.
Utilities were prominent in the advance from the start and gains widened as the session progressed. Rails came along in the afternoon dealings. Toward the close the advance slowed up on indications tax conference was still deadlocked. Some of the industrial leaders backed off from their highs but the market held the better part of the day’s gains.
» » •
BUSINESS SENTIMENT—
Reports that the White House was making renewed efforts to win business support to its reflationary program and that the President’s proposed conference with Henry Ford was the first step in this direction received some credit for the better action of the market in several of the brokerage offices. Apparently the Administration has recognized that many business men and bankers are rather cool to the "pump priming" program. This situation could be met easily by discarding the heavy spending side of the program and allowing the easier credit operation a chance to function. Many who oppose spending have no objection to the desterilization operation or to liberalizing reserve requirements. In fact, both are recognized as definitely helpful to the bond market. In order that there may be some continuity to the advance in the investment market, however, the Administration would have to make some definite contribution toward rebuilding business sentiment. The possibility that this point might be recognized in Administration circles was given some
MONTGOMERY WARD—
Remarks at the annual-meeting of Montgomery Ward did not indicate that officials of that company were holding out much hope of important improvement in retail trade during the first half of this year. Retail prices were expected to work lower in line with the trend in wholesale markets. Sewell L. Avery, president, said operating costs had been reduced but not sufficiently to cope with the drop in business. As a result, expense ratios are still higher than a year ago. About the only encouragement to be derived from this meeting was the statement that Inventories were 20% under a year ago, indicating that one phase of the business situation which has been particularly troublesome been improved materially.
• • •
CONSOLIDATED EDISON—
The market was quite impressed with manner in which the Consolidated Edison
benture. issue was snapped up. This strengthened the opinion that the bond market has been placed in decidedly better shape as a result of the easy money operations of the government Not only did the high grade issues respond, but the expected- strength in secondary issues put in an appearance.
has
the de-
attention in the Street.
• • ♦
have been nibbling again in paper several of these shares have re-
PAPER—
Traders Issues and sponded rather well, indicating that nearby
offerings have been much lighter than on several occasions earlier this year. The industry itself still has a clouded outlook. There has been a decided improvement in operations since the close of last year but the important question profitwise is whether the trade can expand operations from this level. From all indications, International Paper has been operating around the break-even point. Union Bag & Paper has been doing fairly well, benefiting from its low cost facilities for making paper and doing reasonably well considering the circumstances in the paper bag division.
An improvement of about 10% to 15% from current levels would do much to restore the profit possibilities for paper companies. Whether this will materialize or whether a period of summer slackness must precede an upturn is in the lap of the gods for it is one of those problems with which industry generally is currently wrestling. The speculative element in Wall Street, trying its hand upside.
In at
any event, appears to be testing possibilities on the
* • •
have managed to hold up the past several months.
TOBACCO—
Tobacco shares rather well over Liggett & Myers 1b several points above last
fall’s low level and American Tobacco has been
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.