Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 27, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Mazket Diary
	Since
Increased Earnings: *	May X
Industrials			... M
Rails 		. .• 10 -
Utilities		. w.	00
Decreased Earnings:	
Industrials .......		...	207
Rails 		-	aa •	S2
Utilities 		...	' T4’
Additions
Yesterday
S ■
9
' 4 , 4
Ocni,
XAFTJCN
and omissions as-
BV rtOBEKT
Dividend reductions aumed more menacing proportions yesterday. Around midday, Anaconda, General Railway Signal and Babcock &: Wilcox announced that payments had been omitted and these announcements, all coming within a few minutes of each other, had an extremely unsettling effect. The market, to begin with, still had a highly erratic commodity market to contend against and it managed to show reasonable steadiness in the morning; But May wheat broke the limit at Winnipeg and unsettled the Chicago market, causing increasing nervousness in stocks. The Anaoonda announcement brought a swift setback in that issue and selling picked up considerable volume and spread to other Issues. United Carbon’s reduction in the dividend payment to 75 cents from $1 three months ago appeared mild by contrast with the three omissions.
The war menace in Europe assumed tinctly minor significance alongside array of financial developments.
Dow-Jones industrials plunged through the 110 support level which was regarded as significant by chartists and professional selling picked up from there. Union Carbide was again under pressure on the unfavorable dividend news of the previous day. Other chemicals weakened and the Bteels, motors, electrical equipment and merchandising issues faded from 1 to more than 2 points. Utilities lost additional ground, the twenty issues in the Dow-Jones average dropping 0.65 points against a loss of 0.63 for the rails. Industrials finished at 10S.2S, near the lows of the day, for a loss of 2.32 points. Bond prices also gave additional ground.
dis-thia The
downs, and the curtailment in production of crude, should help to correct the rather heavy inventory situation.	-
for its fiscal for the com-assuming- the gather unex-and the next would appear
LOEW’S—	’
Loew’s has been suffering because the downtrend in earnings apparently has not teen checked. Still, on the basis of Street estimates the company will do quite well year and should show a balance mon in the neighborhood of $5.50, downtrend in earnings does not pected momentum between now several months. While the stock ___________
to rate a higher market valuation on the basis of such -an earnings forecast, it must be noted that such earnings will be made possible in a large measure by good results accumulated in the early part of the fiscal year- The current earnings rate is well under that annual figure, but is sufficiently large to make the stock appear attractive at present market levels. Support for the stock, however, is rather weak and until earnings established a sound bottom, or at least furnish some indication that the downtrend has been checked, it probably will continue to be an erratic performer.
FOLTTICAL AFFAIRS—
While the strictly financial news has been disquieting enough. Wall Street also has been concerned over political developments. Brokers and Investors clung as long as possible to the belief that perhaps this time the Administration really intended to adopt a more conciliatory attitude towards the utility Industry. However, Administration pressure to prevent Congress from amending the spending bill to restrict the use of funds in competition with utilities quickly dissipated that idea
Another cause of vague uneasiness yesterday was the announcement of the unusual manner in which President'Roosevelt plans 'to' disclose his intentions regarding the tax bill. The Street has been confident that the measure would be signed, but there were some fears expressed yesterday that the intention to make announcement before a high school graduating class in West Virginia today meant something unusual was afoot.
*
KAILS—
Jesse Jones, RFC chairman, was reported to have discussed with the White House possibilities for securing at this session of Congress some aid for the railroads. The whole matter of assistance for the industry seems to have been dropped, due to the controversy over wage rates. With political considerations being given preference in the lace of a critical economic condition, rail securities have lost most of the gains of the past month or so.
Earlier in the business depression, industrialists were not in agreement on the neceslty for lowering wages but with commodity prices falling mpldly and prices for some -manufar.-tu_«u goods weakening, the opinion has been growing in business quarters that what is needed to resume the flow of business activity is a general lowering in wage and price scales to get them into adjustment again. The Street is hopeful that Congress will relent In its insistence on preBent high wage scales In the railroad industry and — it adjourns.
effect a compromise before
in for their share of liquida-issues are still among the
OILS—
Oil issues came tion. While these	_________d_____
dividend payers and are expected to remain in that category for some time to come, the surrounding bad news had its effect. Besides, income of the leading oil companies is showing the effects of the prolonged and deepening industrial recession. The president of Socony-Vacuum reported at the annual meeting that earnings for the first four months were running about a third less than in the same period last year and that he hoped the decline could be confined to that area.
Meanwhile, refinery operations in Pennsylvania are being curtailed further. The independent refinery of Quaker State Oil Refining Corp, has shut down for two weeks due to an accumulation of finished products. The oil market generally is suffering from an excess of crude and finished products, it was	In con-
nection with this shutdown. These plant shut-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.