Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 9, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Market Diary
Franca. cables .............
Stertinc. cables ............
New Ycrta bank rate ..... Raserre System ratte ....
Copper, docnatk .............
Lead. New York .............
Sliver. New York ............
ktoel scrap. Pitta No. X.-Zine. East St. XkmiIs .....
Futures:
Coffee, Rio. March .........
Cora, May ..................
Cotton. March ............
Hides. March
Oats. Maj ..................
Rubber. Marek ..............
Silk. March.................
Su*ar. raw. No. 3. March Tin. Standard. March . •• Wheat. May .................
Wool tops. July.............
HOW THEY STAND—
	.Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	Feb. 1	Yesterday
Industrials 			....	59	9
Rails ......			.... <	-1
Utilities 			,... 21	3
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 			....	49	. 5
Ralls 			. 6	2
Utilities 		.... 6	
HIGH AND LOW PRICES— Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange,
Anticipating a break in the legislative and business jam, the stock market began to perk up yesterdav and found the going on the upside a great deal easier than on numerous occasions in the recent past. The Dow-Jones industrial average jumped more than 4 points and rails and utilities moved forward to support the trend.
13 stocks made new lows, for ti New Highs—-
Am Can of. . Am Tobac pf.
Beccb Not Fk DavecaB pf. First Nat Bear New Lows—
Allied Btr» pi Amtl Lea pf. . Am Com ale. aw* Locotno Pi Am tfm'ts pt. Am Wat Wks Atctilaoo Pl.
Buey-Er 7% pl Burl. Mills ...
Carriers A Gen ChesAOblo pf.
Cols Palm pf. Col G&E Pf A
new highs and e year 1938.
Flintkote . .-Fuller UA 3 pi Rat Corp pr. TexPac LT old
37 stocks made
Unit Biscalt pl Vulcan DeUn. West P P 6 pf WoohvorW ...
nixie Vortex A lodlao RettD. Lnmrsoll R pf Inland Steel.. mritate ox p Island Or Coal Kalaniaaoo Kt* Kaufmann D 8 Kayser. Julius Laclede Oaa pi Marlin Kock Maytac < pt ww
N O TIM. . Otis SU 1 pf Pitts Steel pt FRA Tab B Pub Ser NJSpl Beadln* X PL Bun Oil pt . . Tri Contln pt Unioo Pac pf. Untt-Carr Fast Unit G Imp pf Unit Stores A.
That the period of preliminary approaches to national problems seemed ready to enter a more decisive phase seemed substantiated by President Roosevelt’s remarks at the press conference. Aftev the close of the market it was stated that President Roosevelt intends to find out about the probability of a railroad rate decision. and that if one may be expected soon he may postpone his railroad conference in order to discuss it at the forthcoming meetings.
Moreover, he declared that he intended to make a statement about relief shortly. Relief is not being considered in connection with ‘•pump priming” but merely from the human standpoint, he declared. Nevertheless, Wall Street cannot help considering relief from the standpoint of its effects upon the market. In view of the fact that relief payments have been lagging sharply under last year’s levels, and in view of the steadily rising ranks of the unemployed. all the pointers suggested a rise in deficit financing. The Administration is trying to develop self-liquidating projects, but such projects call for large Initial outlays and the collections or tolls come later and the whole effect tends to swell current expenditures and expand business.
Coppers, steels, motors, building material shares, chemical and retail issues took part in the rise. The opening was sharply higher and there was some hesitancy In the second hour while these gains were digested. Then the market moved forward slowly but decisively to a strong close, with all sections of the market participating. Bonds were firmer and commodities showed fairly uniform strength.
* * •
BRITISH BUSINESS—
Those who are worrying a great deal about the possibilities for a more severe slump in business in Great Britain and its secondary effects in the United States may be too alarmed, according to a Britisher visiting here. Authorities in that country have a road building program designed to fill the gap when rparmnm nn r and private business round their peak. How soon it may be put into operation is hard to say, but it is noteworthy that fatalities from automobile accidents are greater in that country in relation to total automobile registrations than in the United States and this is attributed to the poor roada	~
In any event, the emphasise is in the wrong place when Great Britain’s business situation is questioned, according to this viewpoint. The main trouble is the falling off in America business and if conditions improve here the whole world will benefit. British are following our affairs more closely. At first there was a disposition to minimize our fears of the deflationary effects of New Deal reform policies, and there was even a tendency to approve of these policies. Now British business men and statesmen have turned into outspoken critics. They real-* ize that the United States is capable of pulling them into a slump, but they have not exhausted their means of counteracting that influence.
SPECIAL SITUATIONS--------
More instances are coming to light that tend to bear out the impression that it is possible to generalize too broadly when considering this stock market. For instance, it is well agreed that the railroads are in a bad situation and revenues have declined at an alarming rate, but here and there an occasional bright side can be encountered. Illinois Central’s decline of only % of 1% in gross revenues in January against a year ago may be placed m that category. This is accounted for by loss of business ’due to floods last year, but even so it must be listed on the side of gain for the floods were a deflationary influence in a broad section of the country a year ago. In addition, general expenses of that road have been curtailed sharply and net income is expected to make a decidedly better showing.
Kansas City Southern’s January results,
which covered fixed charges against a deficit in January a year ago, and in January. 1936. also are worth noting. Better gross and smaller expenses played a part in this showing.
._	- -	a *	*	r
ENQUIRIES FOR STOCK—
Sentiment In a few brokerage circles has been lifted a bit by inquiries for blocks of stock. It cannot be .determined how strong these bids are. or how much volume those putting out the inquiries are prepared to absorb. The effect, nevertheless, has been to awaken interest in a side of the market that has been neglected for a long time. It was similar offers of blocks of stock last summer that helped to touch off the decline. At first, these offers were overlooked in the welter of churning business activity, and most brokers could not bring themselves to consider strongly bearish possibilities, but as the market weakened it became apparent that important distribution was under way.
Now that a few inquiries have appeared on the buying side it does not necessarily indicate that the market has hit bottom, but they will bear watching. Apparently these buyers arc unwilling- to consider important accumulation in an open market where bids would be bound to raise prices.
SKELLY OIL—
Skelly Oil common has not shown much rallying ability since the market declined, and apparently there is a disposition to wait for the next dividend meeting for an indication of the management’s views on the outlook. Skelly does not have regular dividend meetings and the common has not been on a regular basis, three distributions of 50 cents each having been voted last year. Those dividends represented only a small part of the earnings for the year, but the edmpany was under, no obligation to pay out a larger portion of income since it had depreciations, depletion and intangible drilling expenses as a deduction against ’’undistributed profits taxes. The next directors’ meeting is expected to be held early in March, at which time preferred dividends will be declared. Action on the common probably will be considered at that time.
The profits outlook for the first half of this year is not so bright as a year ago, and earnings are expected to run well under the corresponding period of that year. The price structure on petroleum products has not been any too solid since gasoline stocks began to mount. Further large additions were made to the industry’s gasoline supply in the past week.
*	*	4
STEEL PRICES—
Evidence seems to be accumulating that steel labor leaders will resist a reduction in basic wages. Should this prove to be the case, steel prices can hardly be expected to decline drastically. That prices may decline some appears altogether probable. But buyers, or potential buyers, have not troubled themselves about the price structure, feeling certain that they could name their own terms when business conditions justify purchases. If this psychology should undergo *a change, not only in the steel trade but throughout industry generally, the advantage could shift from the buyer to the seller. As one industrialist pointed out to a broker, the consumers will want their materials delivered’ promptly when business turns and there is a fair chance that there will not be much dickering over prices. So far there has been nothing to bring about this psychology, and it remains for developments either in Washington, or within business itself, to bring about the change.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.