Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 30, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 11
Abreast of
the Market
Market Diary
C*H enter, renewal .......
Time money, to «»yi.......
Acoeptaaoee, (0 dan ......
CoouneMal taper ..........
France, cablea ...........
RferUnr, cablet ..........
New York bank rate ...... Reierva Syatem ratio .....
Copper, domeatie.......
Iam, New York ............
Mirer. New York ..........
Bim urap (Pitta. No. 1).. Zine, Knot St. Lonla .....
Fntaresi
Coffee, Rio, September ,.. Com, September ...........
Cotton, October ..........
Hldea, old, September ....
Oata. September ..........
Rubber, September ........
Silk, raw, old, October...
Suaar, raw. No. 3, Sept.. Tin (standard) September.. Wheat, September .........
Wool topa, September ....
BOW THEY STAND—
Since Additions
Increased Earnings:	Aug. 1	Yesterday
Industrials 		...	44	
Rails 		...	4	
Utilities 		...	27	3
Decreased earnings: Industrials 		... 309	4
Rails 		...	£9	• t
Utilities 		...	94	5
♦ • •
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Apprehensions over the Central European situation gathered considerable headway over the week-end and stock prices faded badly on an increased turnover. Weakness also was noted in European securities exchanges although the volume of dealings there was not particularly large. Adding to the poor performance of the market was the bearishness of chartists and technicians who noted that the latest break had developed after formation of a triple top in industrials. The whole tendency, therefore, for those who follow the news carefully and those who follow technical form, was to encourage a policy of caution at this Btage and offerings had to go at rather deep concessions before attracting buyers.
Final losses amounted to 4.89 points in industrials, the latter ending at 137.06, or a Bhade above the August 13 low point. Ralls dropped 1.23 points to 27.48 and utilities lost 0.76 points to 19.13.
Commodities lost ground steadily as the session progressed. The grain market refused to be steadied by the knowledge that the government was prepared to enter the buying side of the market at this stage through the Federal Surplus Commodities Corp. After Saturday's run-up in response to this news the market settled back again.
All groups of stocks suffered. The steels, coppers, building material issues, motors, farm equipments and merchandising sections lost ground. Aircraft issues also settled back. There were no "war babies’’ as on many other occasions when the market has reacted to fears of a European outbreak.
While steel activity gained further ground starting the week that fact was lost sight of in the rush to unload stocks. Omission of the American Rolling Mill preferred dividend was an offsetting factor so far as steel developments of the day were concerned.
Bond prices slumped in all sections.
* * *
WAR SCARE AND CONGESTION—
There is some difference of opinion in Wall Street as to the amount of emphasis that should be placed on the war scare influence in connection with market movements. There is no doubt: that it was a decided factor in yesterday's setback, but prior to that there was an area of congestion at the 145 level in industrials where a triple top had been formed. How much of yesterday's decline was war scafe’and how much the natural consequence of the market’s previous failure to go through recent highs is something that will have to be determined by price movements over the weeks ahead. If the European situation should calm down again, it might provide a test of the market's natural recuperative powers.
Some of the commodity brokers have taken note of the fact that there has been no evidence of a demand for commodities, such as might have been expected were there a real threat of war. Underlying the war possibilities there is a peculiar economic situation, and it is hard to tell from one moment to the next which is exerting the most influence. The fact remains that stocks recently had gotten pretty far in advance of the business indices and some irregularity seemed called for under any circumstances, or at least until business recovery had a chance to proceed further.
• * •
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
Monday on the New York Stock	_
six stocks made new highs and five stocks made new lows for the.;
New Highs—
am ClUele ,.
Am Tob pr...
New Lows—
Alles Lu4 811
City Ice a rual
year 1938.
Exchange,
Panhan PAR n . Unit St’kyda pf. Unit MerAM
General Motors earnings in the last quarter of 1937 were equivalent to 92 cents a share,' after an inventory writedown of 9 cents a share.
, » • »
AMERICAN ROLLING MILL—
Omission of the American Rolling Mill preferred dividend served as a reminder that while there are high hopes that the depression has scraped bottom and improvement is in progress, there are numerous places where recovery in income is lagging. Many stocks are carried up in the flush of enthusiasm that develops with an initial business gain, but while the broad business upturn itself is an encouraging event numerous airpockets are to be expected, especially when the market has jumped nearly 50% since March.
In the present situation heavy industry preferred dividends, notably the steelB, are vulnerable for many companies have been paying out unearned dividends this year. Moreover, steel prices have weakened but wage rates have not, leaving an operating cost problem that is particularly bothersome to the steel companies. American Rolling Mill comirfon and preferred slumped on the unfavorable dividend news in the afternoon and the weakness checked a moderate improvement in other steel shares.
• » •
TIN PLATE—
Competition in the manufacture of tin plate appears to be on the upgrade. This was one of the most stable earnings products of steel com-panics in the 1929-1932 depression for the production of tin cans held up well while buying of heavier types of steel was declining sharply. As a result, many companies over Tecent years added to their tin plate making capacity and some producers were attracted who previously were not particularly interested.
The Blaw-Knox Co. is working on a new process which is said to require a smaller coating of tin on the steel sheeting than that generally used, and it ia understood to have been granted a patent on this method of manufacturing. Crucible Steel also has been working on a new tin plate process.
. • • » '
FALL TRADE—
A little caution in regard to new stock purchases has been suggested in a few Street quarters, awaiting, further evidenQe,Q(.fa)l.rqtailhuyr. ing. It is noted-that several industries, notably the textile trade, abandoned strictly hand to mouth buying operations recently and engaged in a little forward purchasing. Raising of print cloth prices and reports of a proposed increase in rayon prices were among the factors contributing to a little speculative buying. New textile orders, for instance, jumped sharply above the rate of production last, week. While the situation is such that no considerable amount of Inventories could have been accumulated, it still is considered prudent to observe business and market developments for a while to see if it measures up to recent expectations.
MOTOR FORECASTS—
Alfred P. Sloan’s remarks on the automobile situation on his arrival from Europe were much more conservative than some of the statements, official and unofficial, that have originated in Detroit recently. The chairman of General Motors said that the used car situation was "relatively” good, that this is a blind Bpot between seasons, when little can be said about the outlook, and ' that there were no radical changes in design planned for 1939.
If there is a real business improvement it should be reflectedjn the fourth quarter of this year, Mr. Sloan remarked, but "it is not to be expected that fourth quarter earnings will equal the like period a year ago, unless there should be a very radical improvement in the general business situation."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.