Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 2, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 19
anxious to pump
that the Administration was money out as quickly as possible.
Laffan
to withstand sellin,
By Robert
The market’s ability	..
Tuesday, and hold aboxe the prex iou> week’s low levels, inspired a little hope in Wall Street >csterda\. When prices opened no worse than irregularly in the race ot another drop in London. there was some quick bidding and bear cox ering that shot prices up.
After all. it was reasoned. Rntish stock prices and commoditv prices cannot go down torexer. though lately both haxe been trying to set up records for uninterrupted performances in a downward . direction. The domestic business skies remained bleak enough, with Youngstown .district steel operations down again at midweek, but the Street had its fill temporarily of bad news and the market was ripe for a temporary turn on a rather overcrowded bearish position.
A sharp reduction in the Chesapeake & Ohio dividend served as a reminder that fundamentals were still unfavorable and the latter stock lost more than 2 points as it dropped back near its old low. The rest of the rail market appeared at least temporarily sold to a standstill and that was about the position of the market generally. The quick uprush in prices in the morning was too abrupt to continue at that pace. There followed a period of narrow backing and filling, but when it became apparent that no pressing liquidation had put in an appearance, the gains were extended. Volatile industrials gained 2 to 3 points. Rails were backward most of the time but they managed to creep ahead near the close. Utilities also moved along.
Bonds were firmer and commodities stiffened after early irregularity.
RELUCTANT TO MOVE—
Neither those who enjoy a thoroughly liquid position, nor those who are committed to common stocks at ‘	'	'	* ’■
their position anything else to one house business. Clients with large idle cash or equivalent resources are not inclined to move until they’ can see something positive in the way ot genuine recovery or inflation, whatever one may choose to call it On the other hand, those with stocks are not ready to subscribe to the opinion that there xat!1 be no fall recovery’-. Perhaps by’ July, if conditions are no better, a decision will have to be reached. If business does show some signs of improvement this firm expects to see a good deal of additional buynng by customers already committted —	-	-	-
by then might bring that m March, when were deflated
higher prices, are inclined to shift at this time. That, more than explains the dullness, according that does a strictly investment
But lack of improvement another setback such as hopes of
a spring upturn
rating for liquor that still have
LIQUOR—
The extremely poor market shares, with those companies substantial earning power commanding a low
ratio to earnings, is ascribed to various circumstances Some believe that stocks of liquor are much too large. Whether that is true or not, the tendency* seems to be toward a narrowing profit margin Sales and marketing methods axe becoming more aggressive and more concessions are being made. As stocks of aged ■whiskies increase the practice of offering comparatively aged liquor at prices formerly obtaining on new liquor has become more commonplace.
COVERING-----
The display’ of strength was considered in brokerage circles as rather surprising in view of the lack of improvement in security markets abroad. Some noted that such stocks as du Pont. Chrysler. Westinghouse Electric and Union Carbide, issues which are known to harbor a large short interest, were among the leaders.
While short covering may not have been wholly responsible for the upturn, it undoubtedly had something to do with it.
been a fairly sizable short interest outstanding considering the size of the market. Moreover, many were inclined to overstay their positions and even put out more stock before the new restrictions on odd lot short sales went into effect yesterday. The new rules, at the instance of the New York Stock Exchange, apply the same restrictions to odd lot selling as to full lots. Both must be made an eighth or more above the previous sale.
There has
POLITICS—
Moves by Congressional leaders to bring about a quick adjournment and to abandon all efforts to revive discussion of the reorganization bill were given credit in some quarters for the improved tone. Administration leaders apparently have withdrawn the controversial reorganization proposal in order to speed-up passage of the lending-spending bill and to shorten debate on the latter proposal.
Yesterday’s developments in Washington indicated that special efforts were being made to land and spend as quickly as possible, by this summer or fall if possible. Many doubt that action as quick as that can be accomplished, but it served to revive talk of the possibilities of a fall recovery in business, however artificial it might be.
in bond prices. Commonwealth Ed-reports of a large issue today, helped The first issue was enjoys & great deal
EAST MONEY—
While the bond market lately has not been giving a good account* of Itself, the 40 issues used in the Dow-Jones averages have thus far held above the late March lows. It is still hoped, therefore, that the extreme ease in money, together with the large amount of deflation that has already been witnessed, will check further substantial declines *	*	*
The reception afforded the ison issue yesterday, and demand for the U. S. Steel to build hopes moderately, well priced and the second _ _	_
of prestige 00 <hat these two issues may not be altogether representative of the underlying investment demand. However, there is no doubt that the commercial banks and insurance companies aro well fixed financially to absorb new issues. The Treasury itself thinks so well of the bond market’s powers of absorption that it to reported to be moving up its plans for long-term financing to June 15 instead of in the fall as originally planned. This is due in part to the favorable views on the bond market following desterilization of gold and reduction in reserve requirements, and partly to the need of raising funds for the lendlng-spending program. These plans regarding early financing seemed to lend support to the view
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.