Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 7, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Abreast of the Market BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Abreast of the Market
Market Diary
19M 1%
.0280 «.9W< 1% 82.8%
10
4.80
“ *’““12.00
4.15
can money renewal ........
Tbn* money, 90 ...........
Aeoentaneee, 90 day! ... Commercial paper ...... Franc., cables ...........
BteTUng, eablea ..........
New York bank rale........
Reserve System Tratlo.....
Copper, Domestte .........
Lead, New York ...........
Silver. New York ................ -
Steel scrap, Fitts, No, 1, .11.B0S1S. Sine. East SI. tools ......
Fu tores i Coffee, Rio, July ..........
Com, Joly ................
Cotton. July ............
Hides, June ..............
Oats, July ...............
Rubber, July .............
Silk, raw, July ..........
Sugar, raw. No. S, July Tin (Standard) Joly ......
Wheat, July ..............
Wool tops, July ..........
•Friday-------,
mt .044BU
4.MH
T8$%
14
9.00
4S
io.soeso.ro.
8.75
4.29 MH* 8.10
9.20
27 11.93
S7.eo 7S>A
7S.4
HOW THEY STAND—
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	May 1	Yesterday
Industrials 		15	1
Rails 		2	
Utilities 						15	1
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 		73	10
Rails 		4	3
Utilities 			18	2
• • •		
NEW HIGH AND LOWS— Friday, on the New York Stock		Exchange,
seven stocks made new highs and nine stocks made new lows for the year 1938.
■RY ROBERT LlAFFAN
After early hesitancy and indecision, the market came forward with one of the most impressive advances witnessed in weeks. Morning strength in specialties, notably Chrysler, was not maintained and the market drifted off near the end of the first hour but the lack of pressure soon became apparent and creeping progress developed from that point on until the whole movement broadened in the late dealings into an upswing that had the tape running two minutes behind floor transactions.
With the bond market still blazing the trail on the upside, .stocks themselves showing immunity to bad news and with a disposition for trading to dry up in all reactions, shorts became increasingly nervous and traders generally became more impressed with the fact that the line of least resistance was clearly on the side ot higher prices.
The apparent lack of enthusiasm in motor shares in the first hour following the favorable Chrysler report proved deceptive because these issues came forward steadily in the afternoon and were among the most prominent features of the advance. Utilities continued to -display exceptional strength and there were large blocks of North American, Consolidated Edison, Electric Power & Light, Engineers Public Service and others in this division changing hands at higher prices in the late dealings.
Kails came ahead rather late in the day but they developed sufficient strength to carry them slightly above their April 9 highs.
• * •
New Highs—
Am Chiei. .. Coca-Cola • • • Oom A Bon M
New Lows—
Am Cry* 8 pf Rood Stores... Dunhill inter.
Dlsm’d Mutch Lone Star Com.
Pae Gas A El SterUn* Prod.
Ges Time tnst Glmbel Br S p> Kayser, JuUns -
Sehenley Diet. OS A For S pi D A Steel pt.
the bond market giving a particularly good account of itself and medium grade carrier issues meeting with a better demand, it is not too farfetched to hope for a change in the intermediate direction of the'market to an upward pattern. If the industrials now can- top their April peaks, it would be the first time during the bear market of the past year that a really clearcut change in the intermediate trend has been established. Changes in the intermediate trend are often not supported, at least originally, by a definite turn in the earnings trend, for it is usually technical consideratidns that prompt such a move.
* » •
GLASS—
The glass industry has been pretty severely depressed most of this year and the few minor spurts of activity that developed proved shortlived. With automobile and building construction in a deep slump,, the market for plate and window glass has been extremely slack, only those companies that make bottles doing a reasonably good business. The demand has broadened a little recently, probably due in large measure to seasonal considerations, but orders are still too spotted to warrant any conclusions regarding the likelihood for a sustained upturn.
VARIETY STORES—
Not all the business news is on the unfavorable side currently. Some of the chain stores are turning in impressive results for April, notably the variety stores such as G. C. Murphy and Woolworth. The former showed a gain of 18.5% in sales over the like month a year ago against a gain of 1% for the four months to date. Woolworth had a gain of 18.6% against an increase of 2.5%.
The fact that Easter fell in April this year, and in March a year ago, is a factor in the good comparison for last month against a year ago, of course. . However, both companies have had the advantage of an aggressive management. Murphy went into the depression well situated financially and spent some of its funds to good advantage. The number of stores was not increased notably but the most profitable ■tores were expanded, locations were altered and a considerable sum was spent for remodeling and modernizing. Woolworth also expanded out of the low priced range to products up to a dollar.
About the only major chains that did not make favorable comparisons with April a year ago were the grocery units.
« * *
BEET SUGAR COMPANIES—
There has been a little accumulation of shares of beet sugar companies, according to some brokers who have handled these orders. Buying appears to have been based on the theory that with prices" for the commodity now at the lowest levels in more than three years, the government may see fit to do something to alleviate the situation and change its attitude.
Great Western Sugar for the fiscal year to February 28, last, showed earnings of $3.08 a share. Holly Sugar is likely to report within a few weeks and is expected to show about $2.50 a share for the year to March 31 and American Crystal Sugar earnings are estimated at a round $2 a common share. Meanwhile, the beet sugar companies which are well financed have maintained common dividends. Great Western’s last quarterly payment was 60 cents, American Crystal paid 25 cents and Holly Sugar declared a $2 lump sum to apply for the present fiscal yur.
» • •
CHRYSLER—
Those with moderately bullish inclinations were just as happy to see that Chrysler common did not stage a whirlwind ris”e from the opening on the basis of the surprising earnings statement and the even more surprising dividend declaration of 50 cents. A sharp overnight bulge, predicated largely on short covering, might have ruined chances for a more lasting advance. As it happened, the moderate upturn in the initial dealings gave way to reactionary tendencies in the iBsue and a quiet period of consolidation before the afternoon upturn began.
There is still a stubborn short interest in the issue and much comment in bear quarters that, the stock is a good short sale on any bulge of consequence. This, if followed iip by active short selling, should help to preserve a fairly good technical position in the issue. Bears are also contending that the automobile industry is preparing to shut down shortly for the balance of the summer, a statement that cannot be verified in automobile quarters. In fact, some of the General Motors officials contend the chances are all against such a development and it will be very surprising to them if operations, even though on a restricted scale, cannot be maintained through the next couple of months and possibly well beyond that. Obviously, no long term forecasts can be made at this time for the motor industry is checking sales every 10 days and adjusting schedules accordingly. Motor production last week was stepped up to 58,385 units, according to Ward’s estimates, against 50,755 the week before and 141,275 in the like week a year ago,
• • •
BAILS—
Until recently, very little bullish attention has been given to the rails. They managed yesterday to work above the April 9 highs of 22.75 by a small margin. They have not been accorded much sympathy in speculative quarters due to the seeming impossibility of reducing wage rates and due to the difficulties of obtaining enough traffic otherwise to put the Class 1 carriers as a whole into black ink. However, rails frequently are quite sensitive to changes in the technical position of the market and their short term moves are not always supported by immediate changes in the earnings trend. With
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.