Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 16, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Pg. 17
HOW THEY STAN
Inc reawed Earnings:
Industrials .....
Rails ...........
Utilities „.....
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials .....
Rails	......
Utilities' ".....
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Despite unscttlement abroad, the
Despite unscttlement abroad, the local market continued to take a hopeful view of domestic business and political conditions. When a pronounced break in British stocks and government bonds failed to shake the composure of American Issues, sentiment here took a stronger turn and there was aggressive bidding toward the close that carried the Dow-Jones industrial averages up 3.56 points to 127.24. Rails and utilities improved moderately and there was an increased turnover in these issues. Volume for the market as a whole expanded to 760,000 shares, from 430.000 the day before.
There was much talk of armament spending, tout Europeans could not get bullish on their own shares which were weak throughout. American issues qh the London and Amsterdam exchanges, however, remained firm. Copper was higher and commodity markets generally improved. The steady opening in stock prices here and firming tendency through the morning made quite*an impression on traders. As the session progressed, the market gave increasing evidence of its underlying strength by showing no tendency to fall back. New buying in larger volume came into many parts of the list and the short interest grew increasingly nervous. In the late trading such issues as American Smelting. Bethlehem Steel, Chrysler. International Harvester, Johns Manville, Loew’s, Sears, Roebuck and Standard Oil of New Jersey were up 2 to 3 points, du Font jumped 4’-» points.
The upturn came in the midst ot prevailing pessimism in the financial district. The ability of the market to rise in the face of one of the worst breaks in London witnessed in some time had traders quite puzzled. While there was much evidence that foreign capital was coming this way. there was little evidence of xoreign buying of our stocks on any major scale.
HIGH AND
Tuesday, nine stocks
made new lows, New Highs ■
Aa CbSde • • Ain Snaft pf.
CacerpU Tr Pf New LOWS—
Armour Del pl Amoc Invest. AtctUsoo pt. Bklyn A pf Col Mr Cast S B
Coot Dlsm k Cttclaby Paeks Den ROW pf Ooms Minos .
Since March 1 ..	213
..	31
157
14
23
LOW PRICES— on the New York made new highs and for the year
C de or pf Fed MASm Oreyboond
Stock
1938.
Additions Yesterday 25 2
4
Exchange,
27 stocks
Hofland Fur P* Fboenls Ho pl Cf» Rob 1 pl
(*tla Elevator. Pitta Coal pf Postal *1 pf -Reliable 8 tn. Tbompooe Stu-U S Steel Pf-Vfck CbemlcMi WaUier^H^GfcW West Un Tel.
RAILS—
Reason for the strength in rail shares yesterday was not clear, though perhaps none was needed in view of the extensive selling in this group recently. The White House conference on the railroad situation adjourned without disclosures and
Rails moment, case for ..	_
he advises avoiding the borderline roads in view of traffic trends, he is inclined to take the hopeful side for the others. If traffic recovers to the level of the final 1937 quarter, which Includes the poor month of December, total gross revenues. he points out, would be at the annual rate of $4,000,000,000, or roughly the same as the actual 1936 gross. Net income, seasonally adjusted, would be at the deficit rate of $59,000.000 annually. The $175,000,000 rate increase would turn that deficit into net income of $116,000,000. .
talks will be resumed again Thursday, have few friends in Wall Street at this One analyst, however, makes out a them that is far from hopeless. While
S
1
3
CURRENCY UNCERTAINTY—
Recent events have served to emphasize the point that, under present conditions of tangled world finance, cash, or at least currency, can be a risk as well as equities. With the background shifting all the time, the risk keeps shifting. The French franc has been depreciated to a fraction of its former value and the latest decline has coincided with preparations for enlarged armament expenditures. The war scare Is only part of the trouble, for there Is the additional factor of.budgetary instability or deficits that apart from direct devaluation, tend to dilute the currency.
Great Britain and Japan similarly have announced an increase in armament appropna-tipns. The American dollar looks like the safest kind of refuge at the moment, but it is-aignificant that Secretary Morgenthau of the Treasury is watching European developments tor their possible bearing on the tri-partite monetary agreement, intimating that a shift ui monetary policy here might be needed if European conditions demand it. With our present depressed business situation, it would be easy tor this country to so shift its monetary policies as to make them slightly more reflationary. It is still an open question whether the dollar or something more tangible is the greater of two risks. Meanwhile, it is noteworthy that our banking reserves will be increased at a faster rate this quarter since gold is flowing here at a more rapid pace. It is much more likely now that we will realize an addition of the full 5100,000,000 in gold imports allowable this quarter, whereas a short while ago it seemed we would fall short of the mark.
"UTILITIES—
After being rather slow to appreciate the bullish significance of the change in political sentiment in Congress, utility stock finally awoke to the possibilities in this situation. If there is any group of stocks that should benefit, it would appear to be the power shares. "With Senator Norris dropping his opposition to a Congressional investigation of TV A and introducing a resolution for it himself, it looks as though an important chapter in the government relations with utilities is about to be written. A year ago the possibilities for an inquiry into this pet government project would have seemed remote. The depression, therefore, may not have been a total loss, for it has made possible examination of a social theory that has threatened private Investments, directly and indirectly, running into billions of dollars. How much this may have retarded investments In other enterprises cannot be measured.
Even those Wall Streeters who are not particularly keen for utility shares realize that at present market levels all the water has been squeezed out of the industry. Many common and preferred shares, in fact, are selling below some of the most conservative appraisals of the worth of their properties and it baa been only the uncontrollable fear of wbat the government has been trying to accomplish that has made this possible. If the swing in political sentiment ia not merely a paasing phase, utilities might well be leaders in a business recovery.
...
POWER CONSUMPTION—
While political affairs may favor utilities, this week's power consumption figures will not offer much assistance. It is understood that consumption for the week ended March 12, to be reported today, will show a further decline from the preceding week and a wider percentage decline from a year ago than any week thus tar this year.
This factor, however, should not be important alongside the immensely more vital consideration of government relationships. If business activity should be frozen at thia level, no securities would be worth their present selling levels. AU the trade .indices reflect tbe- depressed state of current business. The stock market, on the other hand, has given a particularly Impressive demonstration that It is not evaluating conditions on the basis of current statistics alone, but on the basis of trends and possibilities. Should these trends and pos-slbUltlea prove misleading, the market can be expected to register Its disappointment, but in the meantime its behavior cannot be ignored.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.