Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 3, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
MZ.U. __________
’	'	'1936
1*
....
....
....
....	.0272%
....	<4.SS*
....	I®i>
....	».4%
....	10%
....	4.90
....	42%
L).. 14%«15^
..	4.62
....	10.66
....	23%
. ...	14.25
....	1.70
pf. .	2.00
•T. .	43.05
...
....	73.1
-Friday*
XS3T
.OSTS
4.96 1% 79.S%
14 e.so 444a 21Vi®22 7.26
6.37 rn
15.95 29% TK.SS
SK.OA
106.0
Increased Earnings:
Industrials ......
Rails ...........
Utilities ........
Decreased earnings:
Industrials ......
Rails ...........
’ Utilities ..........
for the year
Coll * Atk pt Com Oil pf..
Life Saver* . zvortkw Tel. ..
4
18
1
7
Stock
1938.
Additions yesterday
4
&
4
Exchange, one stock
BY Robert
^lore evidence that the strain was easing, while not conclusive or
Europe
in
__________............ __	final, gave the stock market an opportunity’ to try its hand ©n the upside Friday. The results were surprisingly favorable for while the volume of dealings was still restricted, rhe moderate amount of buying that appear, d succeeded in lifting leading industrials from two to nearly three points- The 30 issues used in the industrial average gained 3.02 points to 141.08, rails were advanced 0.70 points and utilities gained 0.19 points.
The lessened tension abroad permitted traders to concentrate on home affairs. Automobile production was stepped during the week in what should prove to be a steady uptrend for the next several weeks. Steel activity in Youngstown gained a little further ground and glass making plants, affected in a large measure by automotive requirements, were reported to be anticipating their best month since last November.
Railroad traffic figures also made an encouraging showing and carrier stocks snapped cut of the weakness of ihe past few days to
recover some ground.. Oils, chemicals, rubbers, motors, farm equipments and steels took part in the upswing. Progress was gradual at first but late in the afternoon the rise ac-cuired additional momentum on short covering and new* buying. International Harvester, one of the most backward of pivotol issues in recent weeks, improved on the gains scored in recent sessions and went to a new high for the move. U. S. Gypsum, Sears Roebuck and Chrysler were outstanding features.
The bond market improved after early Irregularity. Commodity prices were little changed.
considerable popularity before other groups got under way and it is logical that there should be some trend away from the companies with comparatively steady earnings into more speculative features.
MARGINED BUYING—
Stock • buying on margin has been picking up over recent weeks. Street loans or borrowings by stock exchange member firms rose nearly $48,000,000 during August. The rise in market values has reduced the number of restricted accounts to negligible proportions and trading accounts, while experiencing some difficulty in getting started due to periodic war scares, are showing a disposition to enter upon a phase of more active speculation. There has been more active switching by traders as the market advance has become more selective.
BANK STOCKS
While bank stocks do not enjoy any noticeable popularity at the moment, it is possible that these issues may command more respect before long, if current favorable trends in business broaden somewhat. While loans have been slow in expanding, there has been some uptrend in investments w’hich should help the earnings positions of banks to some extent.
If the current recovery in business is not a false move it will certainly mean business will have to seek bank loan accommodations as the improvement gathers headway. Only the best situated corporations are over-burdened with cash at the moment and it must be remembered that the undistributed profits tax dividend disbursements and plant improvement and modernization projects absorbed most of the earnings of 1936-1937. Many moderate sized corporations that thought they were well fixed with working capital were forced to borrow from banks -when business expanded late in 1936 and another upsurge would find them forced to borrow’ again.
Business borrowings can be expected to expand after busmess recovery is well advanced; they are hardly likely to initiate the upturn. Administration —	-	-	•	•
banks to “lend	_ _
overlooked this point. Now that a recovery of sorts has been	-	-	-	...
to look for expanding bank loans than there was a few months ago.
officials who have been urging or else * • *” appear to have
initiated there is better reason
CONTINENTAL CAN
Continental Can’s market action has been disappointing, particularly in view of the steadiness of American Can at close to its best levels of the year. The former, in sagging under 40 recently lost all the gains scored in late June, early July, and is not far above the year’s low. Earnings on a common share basis have been tending steadily downward in recent years. Net for the 12 months ended June were equivalent to $2.47 a share, against $2 78 for the 12 months ended March. $3.06 for the year 1937 and $3.17 for 1936. At the recent rate of earnings, the margin above dividend requirements has not been large.
American Can, on the other hand, earned $5.83 a common share in 1935, $5.80 in 1936 and $6.08 in 1937. Neither company is expected to do as well this year for the pack of principal vegetables is likely to be off 107© of more against a year ago and general line business has declined with business activity as a whole.
BUILDING—
Building material shares justified their popularity by playing a prominent part in the market recovery yesterday. U. S. Gypsum was earned to a new peak for the year. Makers of products used in residential construction are expected to have particularly good earnings for the current quarter for there has been a pronounced pick-up in activity since mid-summer. The New York area is particularly active at the moment as several large federal projects are in process of construction and this work is expected to furnish an active demand for labor and materials right up to the end of the year. This work is being undertaken in the face of higher prices for labor and for some supplies.
Builders who have put up apartments recently report they have had no trouble renting them. In fact, two different builders who have large apartments which have not been quite completed report they are enjoying the unusual experience of having them 75% rented before they are prepared to accommodate tenants. The turn of events has been particularly surprising to builders in the New York area for previously they were complaining that costs were prohibitive.
MTYFD MOVEMENTS—
Traders are complaining that those stocks
■ which have scored the sharpest advances In the past month or so are still rising while numerous other issues are showing no progress or are back-tracking to some extent. There has been some liquidation in aircraft issues by tired hulls who have become 'disappointed ever the lack of progress recently even in the face of war scares and promise of larger government orders. Several of the food stocks have been losing ground or marking time re-—ntlg> Ths ajrrraft and £da4 suacka
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.