Purely Gossip--
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 9, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 17
Purely Gossip—
Aided by the strength in the heavy industries, the industrial averages Mondav went into new high ground with more activity in the stock market than had been anticipated in view of election as well as another holiday later this week. Public interest in the better class of stocks was regarded as a bullish factor, too. Rails were firm enough but not active while the rail equipments were much to the fore at higher prices on the argument that the larger revenues the carriers received, the more they could convert rapidly into much needed equipment.
Utilities are in the background. Traders believe that it will take some-time for public interest in this group to take root inasmuch as for a long time all hands have been against these shares owing to the political atmosphere around them.	■
• • •
Heard on the Street—
Steel operations were much better than the most optimistic in the Street had anticipated and new highs for leading steel shares followed announcement of the figures • • • Brokers reported investment buying in the rail equipment stocks with better business news from the trade. Buyers anticipate 1939 will produce best volume for this industry in some time although, thus far, orders have been few and far between * * * General Motors and U. S. Steel sold at new highs for the year * * * Debits are up but little, say a number of brokers who point to the large amount of switching on the part of traders and the big percentage of cash buying as factors.
" • • •
Heavy Industry Shares—
Street liked the stock market leadership, Monday, of the heavy industry ahares. Apparently the trading participation in the lower priced issues, which was rampant the past three weeks, has gradually diminished and' is being switched to shares which have a stronger position in the business picture. This, of course, takes the Industrial averages higher. Steel and automotive news is so much more constructive, brokers report that smaller traders are taking a larger hand in the better class of stocks.
» • •
Auto Show—
The Automobile Show opens in New York Friday and there Ib a strong feeling of optimism in the trade that it will reflect the improvement felt in the industry which results from the growing demand for 1939 models and the consequent stepping up of production.	:
• • •
Copper Statistics—
Despite the fact that copper sales, particularly in domestic markets, have been running lighter in past week thamin a long while, the Street expects the copper statistics, which will be published in the next week, to show a further inroad into stocks. There is a seasonal element in the small recent domestic market sales, and it is anticipated that sales will be stepped up in the current month. The foreign speculative position In the metal is healthier than it has been in a long while, and prices are steady abroad at levels somewhat under our domestic price of 11 >4 cents.
• • • . . ,
U. S. Bubber—	'	.
U. S, Rubber preferred sold at a new high, and was active. There has-been much gossip, in the Street that dividends might be resumed on the stock before the end of the year. At the same time, conservative opinion does not anticipate any such action before early in 1939. In the meantime, it is understood that business for the company, in both September and October, was reflecting steady Improvement. Airplanes—	• • •
Douglas led the airplane manufacturing shares in a strong and active market for the group, with the first named up nearly three points. Incidentally, the stock recently went $3 ex dividend. Ttjere had been a lot of profit taking in this stock, following its sensational rise of over ten points in short order, a few weeks ago, and traders s^y that much trading stock has been liquidated, although lopg-pull holders are holding their shares in view of expectation of continuation of good business Xqr ths industry through 1939.	’
Chemical Expansion—
The coming year should see a considerable Increase in the number of new plants constructed for the chemical industry over the work in progress In 1938. in 1937, for example, du Pont spent in excess of $50,000,000 for plant construction and equipment. With the sharp drop in business a year ago all plans for 1938 were cancelled. The trend was reversed this fall and a resumption of the creation of new capacity
for the growing chemical Industry should get under way with momentum in the next few months.
—Thx Broad strict- Gossip
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.