Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 30, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
HOW THEY STAND—
BT ROBERT LATFAie
Stocks were hammered down to new lows in increased trading yesterday, with foreign and domestic securities reacting upon each other and bad breaks in special commodities contributing to the unsettlement. European markets had a weaker tone to start with and American shares were sold heavily. Sentiment was colored to some extent by the action of the Senate in voting, after our close on the preceding day, in favor of the reorganization bill. However. the market action had many ramifications, margin calls, uncertainty over the country’s silver policy and a bad slump in crude rubber contributing something to the general trend. Rubber was sold on the failure of the International Regulation Committee to cut the export quota further Action was postponed on that matter until May 31.
Bonds continued weak, practically all types sharing the decline. Stocks followed up their soft opening with further losses. Steels, coppers, merchandising issues, electrical equipments and motors slumped to new lows. The
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnlngss	March 1	■yesterday
Industrials 		....	353	7
Rails 		.... 22	1
Utilities 				 78	
Decreased Earning*:		
Industrials .......	....	259	»
Rails 				 48	‘ 1
Utilities 					 58	4
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—
rteaac Tutk to Page Fotmn
market continued fairly active through midday and as it became evident that offerings continued to pour in, without waiting for any rallying effort, prices broke further. The tape lagged behind floor transactions in the early afternoon. Losses were extended to 3 and 4 points in pivotal issues. Allied Chemical dropped 8 points and du Font nearly 5. Rails and utilities were swept to new low ground in a heavy turnover. Just before the close, U. S. Steel common, which had been holding just above 40 through the early afternoon, dropped under that level for a loss of more than 4 points.
The industrial averages finished at 101.92. a decline of 5.33 points, finishing near the bottom. Rails were off 1.23 at 19.23 and utilities 0.78'at 15.33.
* * «
SILVER’S VALUE?—
International operators in silver were asking themselves yesterday what silver was worth. The action of the United States Treasury in reducing the bid tor foreign silver another cent an ounce greatly upset foreign interests for it tended to confirm the suspicion that the United States was deliberately liquidating its silver program outside the domestic field. While there were some rumblings of discontent within this country there hardly could be any real basis for
complaint for domestic mining companies are still getting their fixed price and there never was any good economic reason why this country should extend its generosity to mining companies outside this field. In fact, there are no good reasons why domestic companies should receive a subsidy, outside of purely-political ones.
Nevertheless, lowering the bid for foreign silver increased uneasiness in foreign markets at a time when they are having great difficulty attempting to appraise values for all kinds of commodities. There was no telling what the final resting price for foreign silver might be since that rested entirely In the minds of United States authorities conducting the buying program. The whole history of this buying and selling experiment, probably will prove a good argument for refraining from future efforts to control the price of an international commodity. However, it should be noted that we are still trying to control prices of agricultural commodities.
• • •
U. S. PIPE—
U. S. Pipe 8c. PoanAry Co.’s winter business has held up considerably better than had been expected and orders and earnings, while on a restricted scale, have not lagged much behind the start of 1937. However, opinion in the pipe trade seems to offer no basis for projecting this relatively satisfactory situation far into the future. The incoming orders this winter have been from a wide variety of sources. Incidentally, the company’s operating rate probably is not far from that of the steel Industry, but the concern seems able to make some money at that level.
Failure of the spring business pick-up to mature and the hand-to-mouth nature of much of the pipe business has resulted in a cautious attitude in the trade concerning prognostication, and while hopes for reasonably satisfactory operations this spring and summer have not been abandoned they are not being raised too high in view of the trend of general business conditions. The experience of the large pipe maker has been reflected in business of Warren Pipe & Foundry, which is also making some money in the first quarter. Another company, not directly engaged In the pipe business
but interested'through Its sale of pig Iron, is Interlake Iron which is understood to be showing a profit thus far.
• • •
GRAIN" LOADINGS—	.	..
' Car loadings of the few carriers which have’ reported .for the week ended March 26 in general show a gain over thepreceding week and a lessening of the percentage drop from a year ago. Agricultural roads are showing up particularly well and it is believed that this improvement was caused by pre-shlpment of these products before imposition of the higher freight rates on March 28.	. - '
As soon as the Great Lakes are open to navigation—expected in about 10 days—grain movement over the Northern carriers will be benefited by the movement of export of grain through the St. Lawrence rather ths" from the Gulf ports because of the rate differential.
* • •
FARM ACT—	.
In view of current tendencies In world commodity prices the recent comments concerning farm relief of the Guaranty Trust Co. in its survey are quite pointed. The Farm Act, it is pointed out, far from aiding this country In recovering foreign markets will have an opposite effect since the controls rest on pre-war price parities and are unrelated to existing prices in world markets. The cost of relief, moreover, will be substantially greater than it has been in recent years and parity payments will represent new expenditure to be financed by additional taxes. Crop insurance, it is pointed out, is only theoretically covered by premiums and crop loans are only theoretically recoverable.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.