Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 21, 1938; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Abreast of the Market
Market Diary
OUt money, renewal .......
Time money, 00 days ......
Acceptances. BO days .....
Commercial paper .«.......
France, cablee ...........
Sterling, cables .........
New fork bank rate .......
Reserre System ratio .....
Copper, domestic ..........
Lead, New Tnrk ...........
Slteer. New Fork ......• Steel scrap (Fitts. No. 1).. Zinc, East St. Louie .....
Fntorest
Coffee, Rio. December ... Com, December ............
Cotton, December ...........
Hides, old. December ..... Osts, December........  •
Rubber, December .........
Silk, raw, old, December.. Rural*, raw, No. S, March. Tin, Standard, December.. Wheat, December ..........
Wool tops December .....
	—Taetdar" 1	■	
USS	1887
1%	1%
wA	
TO?	1%
.0S701/4	.0842%
4. SIH	4.UH
. 1%	1%
82.3%	80.0%
	'	14 a bo
	44ao
	18%B1» ■	IM
4.45	s.u
	64H s.ei
<	10.M	18.08
1B.5R	31% 18.88
1.70»A	1.72
	1.38
4M5	88.18
MU	108
7&1	108.0
By Robert laffan
Considerable progress was made by stocks yesterday as hopes increased for a peaceful settlement of the European crisis. The market was bare of offerings after the recent nervous selling and gains ranging from more than 2 to more than 4 points were commonplace. The turnover amounted to 1,200,000 shares.
European markets were distinctly higher. The improvement was noted here from the opening and gains tended to widen into the early afternoon. The advance became somewhat more irregular in the afternoon and in the late dealings several issues receded a little from their highs. However, the greater part of the improvement remained. The Dow-Jones industrials gained 4.31 points to 138.41. Rails were up 0.82 points at 25.57 and utilities were up 0.74 points at 18.70.
Grain markets developed an easier tone as war fears subsided. However, commodities generally held fairly well. The metal markets were steady after their recent strength. Domestic copper sales again reached substantial totals and the export price held in the recent range despite lower prices on the London Metal Exchange.
There was some slowing up of the buying movement in stocks tn the late dealings awaiting Czechoslovakia's answer to the British-French proposals. Improvement set in on the bond market, foreign issues gaining markedly.
• * *
STEEL PRICES AND COSTS—
It is difficult to see how any fairly conducted federal investigation of the steel price structure can find real basis for criticism. The present price for rails, for instance, is $40 a ton and that is below the average for many of the past 18 years. Previous complaints of the Administration were directed chiefly at this item because, it was allege'd, the rail price was pegged. Under government pressure at the time the code went into effect several years back, the price was cut to $36.37% a ton and that price held until March of last year. In 1920 the price was as high as $57 and throughout most of 1921 it was $47 a ton. In October, 1932, at around the bottom of the depression, the price was $43 a ton, but the industry enjoyed relatively low wage costs then.
No consideration of steel prices can be complete unless costs are included. Offhand, it might appear that with increased mechanical efficiency, finished steel prices should be much lower than they were a decade or two. ago. But while it is true that modem mills produce more cheaply, there are other costs factors that cannot be easily controlled. The United States Steel Corp., for instance, sold in 1937 about as much tonnage as a decade ago, but taxes of all kinds, including Social Security levies, were up roughly $40,000,000 against that period. That tape increase was equivalent to almost $5 a share on the common stock. Taxes and an unusually high wage rate struoture contribute much to the so-called “rigidity" in steel prices.
• • •
UNION PACIFIC—
Though Union Pacific’s August gross was the best for that month since 1930, net operating income fell a shade under a year ago. In August, 1930, the road had gross of $18,366,751 and net operating income of $4,529,500. Last month gross was $15,108,440 and n. o. i. '$2,658,842 and in August, 1937, gross was $14,975,324 and n. o. i. $2,898,726.
For the first eight months of this year Union Pacific showed a drop of a little over 13% m gross and a decline of about 17% in net operating income. This is closer to last year’s earnings level than many of the blue chip industrials, which are showing only about half the earning power of a year ago. Though railroad stocks do not command so much market favor as Industrials, It would appear that a road of the calibre of Union Pacific might sell higher on its earnings record. Moreover, any possible wage concessions that are made to assist the weaker roads will likewise benefit Union Pacific.
• • •
TECHNICAL CONTRASTS—
Followers of charts are still interested in the question of whether or not various groups within the market can erupport each other. The sharp upturn since the start of the current week has not cleared up some of the technical problems that have been hanging over the market for some time. It is noted, for instance, that the leading building shares have quickly bounded up towards their best levels for the recovery move and the blue chip industrials generally have performed well. On the other hand, there are many groups that have not succeeded in breaking out of their downtrend formation. Utilities are a conspicuous example, and rails to a smaller extent also must be classified among the laggards, the improvement mgrely serving to bring these issues nearer to the upper regions of the downtrend formation. Both groups are •being watched for indiejations of the
HOW THEY STAND—
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	Sept. 1	yesterday
Industrials 		.... 2	1
Rails 		....	9	
Utilities 		.... 11	
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 		.... 81	3
Rails 		....	50	1
Utilities 		....	32	4
» -• »
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, two stocks made hew highs and no stock made a new low for the year 1938,
New Highs—
__Hob A Tin	■	Mona Chfm nf support they can give to the better acting industrials.
* « •
MOVIES—
Movie executives have been watching the war news carefully for the industry, has a large stake in international affairs. Gross income from foreign sources ranges from 30% to 35% generally and on some pictures the ratio is as high as 50%. Central Europe has not been much of a movie market for some time, but the' British Empire is quite important. In addition to the direct losses there would be the indirect effects upon patronage.
Movie stocks have been swinging in a fairly broad range for some time. The fall and winter business is expected to be quite good and there have been several attempts to discount seasonal Improvement, punctuated from time to time by nervous fluctuations on the war scare news.
• • •
GOVERNMENT-BUSINESS RELATIONS—
In the intense excitement of trying to find an amicable settlement of some of the world problems, the matter of government-business relations at home has been dwarfed to insignificance. The market has shown little regard for political victories of ahti-New Dealers and Wall Street has not been disposed to give much weight to current conferences between industrial leaders and government officials, through the International Management Conference, to promote better relations between government and business.
Any settlement of the European prdblem probably would focus more attention on domestic political affairs. Some Wall Streeters contend that the failure of the Administration "purge” cannot be taken too seriously in view of the Gallup poll of public opinion which shows that the President personally has lost little popularity. It is also noted that the government has extended its business ventures into chemicals for the first time by setting up an agency in Puerto Rico to manufacture solvents from molasses. It seemb to be a tremendous task to attempt to turn the government from strictly business ventures and back to striotly governmental functions for the march of events appears to be all against it. But from the standpoint of regimentation, any settlement of the European problem would be tremendously helpful, for a war now would encourage even greater centralization of powers in the hands of government '	’	- -	-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.