Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 18, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 17
HOW THEY STAND—
Market Diary
O»tl money renewal .........
Time money, SO d»y* .... Acceptance*. 90 day* .... Oommeretal onoei ........
Franca, cable* .............
Sterling, cable* ...........
New York bank rate .........
Reserve System ratio ....
Copper, domottc ............
Lead, New York .............
Silver, New York .........
Steel *erap. Pitt* No. 1.. Ztno, Bait St. rant* .......
Future*i	.
Cofree, Rto, March .........
Corn, May ...................
Cotton, March ..............
Hides, Hardt ...............
Oat*, May ..................
Rubber, March ..............
Silk; March ..........	• ■ • • • •
Sugar, raw, No. 8, March Tin, Standard, March .... Wheat. May . • • ...........
Wool tope, Maroh ...........
--------Thur*day-1088 ivlw
.0389U «.os>£ 80.8%
10
4.50 44% 16,00-14.50
4.75
1937
w
4.89rt
solit
14
6.00 lO.lO-uVSl
6.40
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	Feb.l	Yesterday
Industrials 		,.. 145	11
Rails 		... 12	■ ■■ 4 ■
Utilities 		...	36	1
Decreased Earnings: '		
Industrials 			.... 109	9 ,
. Ralls 			...	43	17 ■
Utilities 		...	17	$ •
* * *
HIGHS AND LOWS—
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 24 stocks made hew highs and eight stocks made new lows, for the year 1938.

By Robert Laffan
Bullish sentiment got a stronger foothold yesterday and stock prices climbed on the strength in commodities and on the evidence that the government objective is a higher price for farm products. The‘market was . slow in
New Highs—
Am Ch ....
Am Chid* .. Am Wooleo p1
Beneficial Ind. Oblck Cot OU Cioett P’body. Davison Chem
Helme G W pf New Lows—
-■ Am»l Leapt..
Flratene pt.. Gabriel Co A.
Int Salt ......
Lone Star Own.
HeKene R pl Nat Dletlller*. N V C omnlbar Pm Cit 1 pt.
Parkr Oavl*. Pb Morri*.
Proct * G pt Shattuck B • SuthTd Paper Tolantorraph Thatcher Mf| US A For 8 pi US Rub 1 pt Welton O * ■
Laclede Oa* . Laclede Oa* pl Pnb Ser N47pl.
Shell Un OU. Vick Chemical.
getting under way yesterday, but the impressive manner in which prices had recovered Wednesday following the morning slump bolstered confidence and most prices showed further improvement during the first hour.
In the second hour, bidding became more brisk and price levelB tended to bolt away from the potential buyers. Anaconda, American Telephone, Westinghouse Electric, Johns Manville, sears-Roebuck, International Harvester, U. S. Steel and Chrysler were some of the outstanding strong features. There was some further irregularity during the midday trading while the market attempted to digest some of these outstanding gains. But there was little evidence of a tendency to recede materially and the market generally found strong bida on moderate recessions from the day’s highs.
A number of specialties developed quite a following and buying orders came in on an increasing scale. Rubbers, coppers, farm equipments and oils all responded to the stimulation furnished by advancing markets for commodities.
The volume of dealings expanded to 860,000 shares against 470,000 shares the day before, industrials gained 2.69 points, rails were up 0.59 points and utilities 0.40 points.
• • •
equipment buying should hold ’up rather well into the Spring and maintain a fair lewel of profits for these manufacturers.
The backwardness of these Issues following the sharp slump of late last year is attributed in some quarters to fear that Ford’s competition in the low priced tractor field may be felt eventually. This is more a long term possibility, however. Meanwhile, those who follow the farm equipment trade closely are Inclined to think the stocks of leading manufacturers have more than discounted the poorer business prospects.
PRIVATE TRANSACTIONS—
Reports persist that there are more, numerous transactions for blocks of stocks off the Stock Exchange, and that interest definitely is being shown on the buying rather than the selling side. In other words, those seeking to accumulate bull positions are more eager and in a few of the instances mentioned bids have
been made well above existing price levels in the official market. For a time many of the blocks of shares were overhanging without attracting much interest on the part of buyers.
It is also noted that there has been a smaller preponderance of odd lot buying over sales and this also tends to support tbe impression that the market has derived more of its strength lately from large scale interests rather than from the smaller traders.
» » * ' REFLATING PRICES—
Wall Street is impressed with the Administration’s attitude toward price levels, but it has grown cautious through habit and is not allowing enthusiasm to have a free hand until it can be certain that this is no mere effort to talk up prices. Thus far all that has materialized definitely is that $250,000,000 additional has been asked for relief and the gold sterilization prngTRm has been modified. For the rest, it is mostly talk and strong hints that the inflationary school of thought has the upper hand.
This might be more than enough to turn psychology, but an additional restraining factor is the continued weakness in foreign securities markets, with London and Amsterdam both heavier yesterday. The trading element in brokerage offices here is strong on cash at the moment and is anxious to use it in the stock market, but first it wants to see if the Administration has the power to ' check the fall in foreign markets.
» » » ■
LEGISLATION—
Perhaps it is, enough merely to know that Washington is no longer contentedly Bitting back and viewing the business situation as a "recession” rather than a genuine depression. The too-confident outlook a few months ago worked a good deal of harm and it was responsible for many a White House blast against big business and for the lack of a legislative and administrative program dealing specifically with the depression problem.
Now Congress is moving at a faster gait and such matters as tax relief, eagerly asked for at the special session but with.no response, and assistance for the railroads are moving up from the discussion to the concrete stage. Perhaps the necessity for a more cooperative attitude toward utilities also will be recognized, though hopes on this score have long since departed,
' * • »
SPECULATIVE BUYING—
Appearance of fairly aggressive speculation for the rise in such 1937 leaders as Deere & Cd. and U. S. Rubber common lifted spirits in brokerage circles. This speculation undoubtedly is associated with the Administration's reported plans to .support or lift basic commodity prices. Both have volatile earnings, geared strongly to the commodity price level, the former through its dependence upon farm buying power and the latter through its extensive interest in crude and finished rubber.
Both are selling extremely low in relation to last year’s earnings. Of course, last year’s earnings are considered as' “water over the dam," but it 1b a curious fact Wall Street iB not consistent on this point In some of its more depressed moods, it writes off 1937 earnings as meaningless, but every now and then, particularly during a spell of market strength, one hears reference to the. excellent earnings for the past year, indicating that this subject is one that can be discarded or brought into full play, depending upon the mood. With speculative psychology, swinging through extremes of this kind, it is evident that one can write his own ticket on where stocks should sell in. relation to earnings and that there is a certain amount of dynamite in the ease with which mental values can change.
■ ■ 1 ’ » • • ' ’
FARM EQUIPMENT—	■
In connection with the farm equipment shares generally, there has been a certain amount of erratic market performance which Is a reflection of the unstable mental attitude of Wall Street From all. reports, business of these*- companies has held up reasonably well. While, no’one is anticipating as good a year as in 1937, there are some indications that farm
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.