Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 17, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
HOW THEY STAND—
Inc reused Earnings: Industrials.........
Rails ...........
Utilities’ ......
Decressed Earnings:
Industrials .....
Rails ...........
Utilities .......
Since March 1 .. 226
X2 .•	35
167
24
26
York
lows, for the
Additions Yesterday 13
8
4
10
IO
3
Stock Ex-
year 1938.
Holland Fura.
BY ROBERT LATFAN
Overnight developments in the foreign field were much too critical for Wall Street to maintain its composure. The collapse in London stock prices and further acute weakness in British government bonds carried enough economic significance, apart from the justification or not, for the war scares, to unsettle traders here. Prices opened lower and continued to give grdund through the late morning. ,
Concentrated selling	’	*’
causing sharp declines, which was selling at 15 to appear on the tape, point from that level, suffered from lack of bids sufficient to copc with the volume of offerings and brokers reported that trading at one time during the morning had to be held up until bids appeared. After dropping to IS the stock recovered to 18and finished with a loss of 1% points. All of the earner issues were hard hit. The tape fell behind floor transaction for the first ume In a long while during the height of this selling movement. Volume of trading for the full session expanded to 1,020,000 shares from 760,000 shares the day before.
Steel common, Westinghouse Electric, Sears, Roebuck, Union Carbide, International Nickel, du Font, Chrysler, Bethlehem Steel, American Smelting and Allied Chemical dropped 2 to 4 points. Aircraft issues gave a fairly good •account of themselves for a time -	-
in tbe afternoon.
Selling activities lightened in Ing, but there was no important xnent. Prices finished moderately above the low levels of the day with the Dow-Jones industrials off 4.37 points, rails down 1.47 and utilities down 0.64 points. Bonds were weaker, government Issues giving ground as bids became thinner. Commodities were firm.
came into rail issues, New York Central, when large lots began suddenly faded a full Great Northern also
but they cased
the later trad-rallying’ move-
Jones * Lao pf KaUmuoo S€v LeBmao Un A Myan. L>lqo!d Cbaj-b . Loom Wile* .. Loots * Nm* Maratuui Field Mayta« .......
MeCatt	. .
McIntyre Fora McLellan Btrs.
M Kan T pf. Mo Pacific pfl Murphy Co . . Mat fort . . . ■aeianer Broe. Aiewbcrry ..
M Y Central M Y Cli&St L. >T>’RXH pf.
Mor Uactfle Ulla Elevator, •aramoont . . Fenn R. R.. . Fere “	’
Pere ____-
Phila R T pf Port R Am T A.
Foatai ‘I pt -Pub Ser NJBpf Pub Set NJTpi Pub Mer NJBpi Radio K Or Hit becill Cat* Readme Readina
MarqaeU ftiarq pt
Co. 1 pf.
Real Silk Haa Revere CAS pf Reynolds roots Safeway St 6pi Bavave Amw, Bciunley LMe*. Schulte pf. deagrete .... MbeU Ub OU. ■*wvwt! “*	'	'
Soo I____
500 Bwy Soo “— Std__________
Swift * Co..
Sym Goa (41 ww 8yns Ooald xw Talcott pf .. T«a» A P*c. Tldcwat Assoc. Truax Traer.
Twin City R T TwlnCltyRT pf Un Has X P . Union PadBc Union T*k Car Unit nrur . .
Unit Faperb’d U S tndAlcoboi tJ H Leather A U B Tobacco to Va lx C * C U alker.H..G&W Warner Pic pf Weil Up Tel. Wilson SB pf.
Va*A* Paclfle..
Rwy pf Bnutda.
foreign liquidation but the reports appeared quite exaggerated. Likewise, on Tuesday the strength in our market in the face of weakness abroad suggested that foreign buying may have been responsible for the conflicting trend * there was little evidence of heavy security chases here although there undoubtedly quite a rush to transfer foreign currencies dollar balances.

but pur-was into
LABOR—
On top of the rest ket had a reminder of ties. Buick shut down _ lowing production stoppages by -UAW members who were disgruntled over the new grievance set-up in the working agreement of "the corporation. The Fisher Body Plant No. 1 of General Motors Corp, also was shut down. UAW members of the Chevrolet Gear & Axle plant also were reported to be forming a peaceful picket line at the plant, claiming that the management is using supervisory employes on production work to replace regular workers.
The Buick plant, which has been one of the more promising divisions of the General Motors recently, had planned to operate on a four-day week basis to produce 16,000 cars this month against 11,800 in February. This schedule may have been a little over-optimistic for it is understood to have been somewhat above the rate of incoming business.
of its troubles, the mar-last year's labor difficul-its plant for a week fol-
RAILS—
Considerable interest was displayed in the White House announcement that coordination and consolidation possibilities for the railroads are being explored as a means of solving difficulties of the carriers. The thought of keeping off relief those workers who might be left without jobs received sympathetic attention. At the same time, the economics of the situation suggest that it will be difficult for railroads that arc not earning money to improve their position materially if benefits of consolidations are to be distributed in annuities. To Wall Street, it looked as though both capital and labor were
trving to get something out of a situation that FARM EQUIPMENTS— simply wasn’t there.	Farm equipment manufacturers are modify-
The railroad problem keeps reverting back ihg their production schedules for this spring to hopes for a revival in traffic of sufficient size and summer. Earlier this year their reports to restore earning power. While there are still from dealers on pobable sales were quite cheer-some hopes that the White House conferences	fcut the producers had to modify these plans
may go part of the way toward economies, labor somewhat realizing that general business condi-cannot be expected to agree to drastic con- tlons were not favorable. Developments have cessions at this time.	proved the wisdom of this course and the
-	-	manufacturers probably will adhere a little
closer to conservatism in production schedules. However, general satisfaction Is expressed over the farm bill recently passed, which is expected to cushion the decline in rural income.
Meanwhile, the manufacturers are following in the footsteps of automobile makers and hope to widen the outlet for their products by developing cheaper tractors This should enable
FOREIGN ACTIVITIES—
The surprising reversal in our market trend had brokers perplexed. They made anxious inquiries abroad and at home in an attempt to find out if something had occurred to alter sentiment between Tuesday and Wednesday. Some of the cables placed special emphasis on.	_______________ _____ ...	__
the French-Spanish situation and Indicated that them to put their equipment on farms that up it was highly critical. Wall Street was un- to now have not been listed among their cus-prepared for troubles from this quarter since t-nmerw.
it started this week in a better frame of mind, convinced that the Hitler coup in Austria had been accomplished without any threat of additional ramifications.
However, the break In British Industrial stocks to the lowest levels since September, 1933, measured by the Industrial averages, and in. the rails to the lowest level since November, 1935. and the reports that banks and brokers in London were tightening margin requirements, were enough to shake confidence here. Failure ©f official buying to stem the losses in British government bonds was particularly unsettling. Some of our own best grade bonds issues suffered weakness on this news.
NO LARGE ORDERS—
While there were numerous rumors of large foreign selling orders most houses that handle Important European commitments reported the flow of business for foreign account was strictly normal In size. The heavy selling in rails and in some industrials that are normally European favorites, together with the acute weakness abroad, naturally created the impression of
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.