Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 29, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
Am Ham’o 8S Canto Fob pl Haek Water. . liayacr, Juba*
Majtap pf Mona Ofcaiu Outlet Co ....
Pitt T Ooal pt KeaM * Mm CJnlv Leaf T pt
Steady erosion of stock prices that, except for a brief period Wednesday morning, had characterized the market for the past week continued yesterday. Failure of favorable news, or at least news not so bad as expected, to create enthusiasm on the bull side has tended to discourage sentiment further. Market observers point out that the steel reports, although hardly such as to induce loud huzzahs from shareholders, have been better than expected even in the steel trade. But they have had little perceptible effect marketwise. The same is about true of tbe suggested get-together between business and political leaders. So tar as can be seen at the moment, news developments over the next weeks are likely to contain little encouragement to the purchase of stocks.
For these reasons, technicians expect the current reacton, in which both the industrial and railroad lists retraced about 41% of their gain between late March and mid-April, to continue futher before a rally can be anticipated.
The Dow Jones average of thirty industrial issues closed yesterday 3.27 points down at 111.98. The rail average lost 0.52 to 21.21 and the utilities 0.57 to 17.88.
• * •
BANK LOANS-------
Ordinarily at this time of the year commercial banks are enjoying a healthy seasonal upturn in business loans. Not so this year, however. Depth of the business depression is emphasized by the fact that so far in 1938 with one exception banks in New York City have recorded each week a decrease in their “commercial, Industrial and agricultural" loans as reported by the Federal Reserve System. Since the middle of October, 1937, the weekly reporting member banks in New York City have recorded a decline of $320,000,000 in business loans, cutting their total, as of April 20, to $1,626,000,000. Meantime, reporting member banks in 100 other leading cities showed a loss of $343,000,000 in business and agricultural borrowings, cutting the total to $2,582,000,000. Percentagewise, therefore, the local institutions have lost most.
This general downward trend has lost none of its force in recent weeks. Since the end of February the New York City banks* business loans have declined $72,000,000; those in the 100 cities, $98,000,000.
» * *
CROP PROSPECTS—
If anything were needed to add to the troubles of the railroads, it would seem to be supplied by reports of rust damage to the winter wheat crop in the Southwest. Last year’s large crop permitted a substantial export movement and thia materially aided the roads serving the Gulf ports to withstand for a time the effects of the decline in other traffic. So far as the current rust reports are concerned, it may be said that the best opinion is they are considerably exaggerated and that there is insufficient reason at the moment to fear that damage to the crop will be severe. Traders, who a few weeks ago were inclined to discount government estimates of winter wheat crop of 725,000,000 bushels, now believe that figure will be reached and possibly exceeded by a considerable margin.
PACKAGE GOODS—
Although their results are running below a year ago, the leading package goods manufacturers are making a better showing than most other lines of industry. General Foods Corp., for instance, reported net for the three months to March 31 of 64 cents a share, against 78 cents in the like 1937 period. Standard Brands for the initial quarter recorded net of 17 cents a common share against 22 cents. Prominent among the reasons advanced for the slower decline in package goods earnings is the fact that the industry has strengthened greatly its competitive position in recent years. Contrasting with the relatively wide spread between the price of the advertised product and the privately labeled article of the early 30*s, the former item is now marketed on a closely competitive pnee basis. The effect of these closer prices is particularly noticeable in the larger markets where both brands are offered from parallel shelves. While m the past the buyer might be influenced by the lower price of the private brand, the differential is now so moderate that it is often outweighed by the goodwill created by advertising.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.