Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 19, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Abreast of
the Market
Market Diary
1>3S
1%
M.4%
IO
4.50 44** ll.5O~J4.no
4.26
4.13 •O’-fc
S.54
S.95 SOW 13.70 l.SIMr 2.17 40 93
*78.1

■FHtoy---------\
1337 1%
4.88iT«
90.8%
45V4 29.00-23^0
7.50
7.20
107 .	13.30
31.40 4«V* * 24.00
2.RO 02.40
111.0
LAFFAN
BY ROBERT
Sellins activities picked up additional momentum Friday and prices receded further while volume ot trading expanded to 1.580,000 shares against the 640,000 share turnover of the preceding session. The increased offerings seemed to be based on general discouragement rather than related to any specific development in the day’s news. .Actually, the European markets were more composed but our weak close on the preceding day and the growing conviction that the world events had set back what little hopes remained of nearby trade expansion brought in additional selling. Many traders and Investors who had been holding- off. reluctant to take the losses that had accumulated In earlier stages ot the market decline, were among yesterday’s sellers.
The industrial averages dropped through the low levels of last February and December and finished a little above the day’s low point at 118 41, off 3.62 points on the day. Rails were down 0.83 points to a new low and utilities dropped 0.47 points.
Leading stocks such as Allied Chemical, du Font, American Can, Westinghouse Electric and Johns Mansvillc were among the heavy losers. Farm equipments, steels, movies, merchandising issues and communications shared the decline. Ralls again encountered heavy offerings and gave waV easily.
Commodity markets were highly nervous. Grains jumped around a great deal and managed to finish with some gains. Cotton broke badly, particularly after the Hitler speech in the late afternoon. The stock market was not particularly disturbed at that time, most of the selling having spent itself. Prices were a shade better In the last hour but there was no great activity on the rise.
Bonds were lower and the feature of the day was the weakness in first grade rails.
RALLS—
Indifference of the railroad shares to what, on the surface, looks like the shaping of a really constructive policy for this industry in Washington is disconcerting. However, the market probably realizes that attempts are being made on the run to formulate policies that ehould have been prepared over a period of years and not allowed to wait until an emerg-
way because a magnitude has the weaknesses
It is difficult to of these long-
ency had arrived. The troubles of the railroad industry did not develop overnight; they only seem to have developed that	*	“
business decline of sufficient developed to uncover some of that have been accumulating, solve in a few months some standing problems and meanwhile the realities of present reduced traffic remain.
Nevertheless the groundwork for long term improvement may be laid provided business remains depressed long enough to force consolidation and economy. In this connection some rail analyists are not in favor of larger-scale RFC lending to weak roads because again the government would be avoiding a direct attack on the problem and depending in a large measure on business recovery to float the uneconomic portions of the railway system.
MOTOR ACCESSORIES—	'
Industrialists in the middle west have been watching the motor accessory companies for signs of spring expansion in business, figuring that any upturn in automobile manufacturing and related lines would first be reflected in buying by the accessory companies. The latter, however, have not been buying much material and this has created the Impression that new car sales have not been picking up enough to justify expectation for any material enlargement in operations.
While there is normally some expansion in automobile manufacturing between the first and second quarters of the year, and this held true even in the depressed year of 1932, from present indications it seems that any pick-up will be strictly limited to seasonal or perhaps less than seasonal proportions. The talk in steel and motor accessory circles is that automobile production this year may approximate two and a quarter million cars, which does not leave room for much activity through the summer months. Automobile sales are sharply geared to the rate of general business activity and they generally swing in a wider range.
• • •
The rayon and other textile manufac-enough for any makers the ac-
TEXTILE—
In the textile industry there has not been much expectation for spring business at any time.	-	--
turers did not curtail production soon last fall to cause the market to prepare great pick-up in production. The rayon were a little more prompt in checking cumulatkyi of inventories than other divisions of the textile trade but, even so, hopes for early Improvement were not very high. There have been one or two buying waves by retailers and distributors this year which have helped to cut into inventories. By mid-summer the market is expected to be in a well liquidated condition, based on the present rate of absorption of supplies.
If _ isfactory by the summer, the other divisions of the textile good buying and a pick-up in mencing around July.
’encral business conditions are at all sat-rayon and some trade anticipate production com*

GOLD SHARES— There has been some talk bllities have been primarily responsible for the
that war possi-
HOW THEY STAND—
increased Earnings:
Addltions Yesterday
Since Varch 1
Tnrtmttrisals . .		. ..	239	1
	...	15	
"Utilities			... <0	1
Mtreaaed Earnings: Trtrliijatrifals .........	. ..	194	20
Wa11r				...	33	3
Utilities 		... 28	1
weakness in gold shares, the assumption being that war would force commodity prices, labor costs and probably taxes higher and thereby reduce the margin of profit. However, it is significant that commodities are not booming presently nor are wage rates. Gold shares, in f&ct, showed signs of topping off in the fall of 1936 along with motor shares and several other industrial issues. It seems a safer assumption therefore that there is no magic in the gold mining industry that can make it stand up in the face of present economic forces. Taxes may go higher to pay -for the expenses of running a modem government with its huge armament budgets but there is no current indication that commodity or labor costs are rising.
• • •
STEEL PREFERRED SHARES—
Several of the preferred shares of steel companies have been particularly weak in recent sessions and doubts are arising as to the ability of these dividends to stand the strain of heavy losses that are indicated for the current quarter. While it may be true that steel shipments of some companies are running a little in excess of present ingot production, the margin of gain is not enough to warrant any inferences other than that the companies are not certain enough of the future to lift ingot output further. Then too, they may have sufficient raw material on hand to roll finished steel without stepping up ingot production further. Steel production in the Detroit area is particularly low at the moment, with, one of the big plants that operated all through the depression of the early thirties now shut down.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.