Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 24, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
By Robert, Laffan
Hopes for European industrial gains, based upon a foundation of peace rather than war preparations, gained a tremendous uplift oyer rhe Washington’s Birthday holiday and W all Street staged quite a demonstration yesterday. Taking their cue from strength in foreign markets, prices opened strong and pushed ahead vigorously to close at around the" best levels of the day. The Dow-Jones industrials were up 2.92 points, rails 1.17 points and utilities 0.45 points. Volume expanded to 1,300.000 shares, the best total in about a month and the largest trading witnessed on an upturn since early January.
The New York market has had the symptoms of strength for some weeks, edging up gradually in. the face of a declining London market and a generally menacing European situation. Drawing largely on its technical strength, end its conviction that the Roosevelt program of reflation has sufficient potency to.be effective at this low level of business activity, the market’s main concern has been that Europe might touch off a secondary wave of deflation. With this menace removed with surprising suddenness, prices fairly bounced forward, accepting the strength in European markets as ample evidence of a more hopeful outlook from that quarter.
Commodities played a promment part in the upturn. From every standpoint there was breadth of price movement that carried conviction. Hitherto backward issues, sucn as rails, farm equipment, building supply, rail equipment and utility issues swung into the upturn. Chemicals, merchandising, amusement and copper issues moved forward on spirited buying. A moderate pause in the early afternoon provided the necessary consolidation of the earlier gains, and in the last hour rail issues snot ahead on volume. giving their best performance in many weeks.
* • *
MANAGING MONEY—
The British Exchange Equalization Fund is being accused of unwittingly inducing a deflationary trend in British gilt edge bonds arid stocks through the first nine months of 1937. This is interesting because many students of finance here believe the American government also was guilty of being over-zealous in desterilizing gold imports and tightening reserve requirements of member banks at a	when
a certain measure of normal deflationary influences were beginning to appear. The British fund, according to J. M. Keynes, bought gold to the extent of £190,000,000 which was not offset by an.equivalent sale of Treasury bills. The net result was to reduce domestic liquid resources by from £100.000,000 to £150,000,000, tHus inducing a fall in prices.
Managing money or credit is still too new and experimental, at least on the scale upon which it is now being applied, to be termed a science. Consequently it is quite possible that the credit managers are a little crude dling the controls. However, in view of that many believe managed money is stay, or to advance further, criticism type serves a useful purpose. For the _	r
it la sufficiently important to note that credit managers in both the TJ. S. and Great Britain have had a few’ points called to their attention and neither at the moment is anxious to promote further deflation—quite the contrary.
• * •
in hantile fact here to of this present,
RAILS—
Particular encouragement was derived yesterday from the strength in rails for this was the one remaining group about which there remained considerable doubt. The rail rate decision has been talked about so much that many
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
	- Since	A-dditions
Increaeed Earnings:	Feb. 1	yesterday
Industrials _ _		... .	196	9
' Rails 	\				
Utilities		.... ...	43	2
Decreased Earnlnga:		
Tr»/?n«fT4nli«	•	.. ..	159	16
Rails 		...	46	1
Utilities 		,... 26	5
V	*	•	
HIGH AXD LOW PRICES—		
Wednesday, on the	New York	Stock Ex-
traders feared the possibility that a favorable ICC decision had been discounted. However, a bulge in traffic, along with a favorable rate decision, could go a long way. L. A. Downs, president of Illinois Central, yesterday predicted an early improvement in traffic, particularly in miscellaneous freight which moves over a broad area and which suffered the greatest decline. Xt must be remembered that railroad traffic lately has been running under the 1932 level. While this was not the extreme low for the last business depression, additional losses being shown around the bank holiday period in 1933, it seems low enough to raise the question of how much additional loss can occur immediately. The increased activity since the turn of the year in buying of textiles, paper and several other commodities, particularly the bulge in buying activity during the past week, offers some hope for a pick-up in miscellaneous freight.
tbe best recLast year it While wages
BAKING STOCKS—
More interest has been shown in, baking stocks recently, and Continental Baking was among the firmer features yesterday. The outlook for these companies this quarter is better because they have lower raw material costs, notably on flour, than a year ago and their price level is holding well so far. Continued unemployment would naturally hurt them, especially in the Middle West industrial areas. There is also the constant threat of regulation and rows by “consumer” organizations in the cities to bring down the cost of bread.
Continental Baking has by far ord of any of the bread bakers, showed a substantial gain in sales, went up sharply, this was due partly to the fact that the company has a bigger personnel. Continental took no year-end flour write-down,, due to judicious buying. The capital structure, of course, is a handicap but this is a situation that can be expected to be remedied.
• • •
ODD LOT OPERATIONS—
Those who have been contending that when a turn in market fortunes comes it will be accompanied by a preponderance of odd lot selling over buying see some vindication 'for their belief in the SEC statistics which have been coming to hand during the past week or more. Of course, it may be premature to consider the current upswing “a turn,” but there has been sufficient breadth and volume to lift hopes for at least a change in intermediate trend.
The significance of the odd lot figures rests in the fact that all through the early stages of the decline last fall, and into the winter, there was an excess of odd lot buying over selling. During that period, the so-called insiders were sellers on balance, as revealed in subsequent SEC statistics. Now for the first time since the SEC started publishing daily odd lot transactions, there seems to be a clear trend away from the buying to the selling side, this trend developing within the past week. There also has been some evidence of accumulation by large interests, especially during the past week
or so. The net result suggests that there is. some truth to, the assertion that many small traders buy too sooh in a 'decline and sell too quickly on an-upturn, whereas the larger opera-.tora may be tardy about liquidating but they also wait for a reason^ other than the mere fact that prices are falling, before re-entering the market. The record of odd lot dealings has ribt been established Tong enough to test this theory under all kinds of conditions, but the indications point that way.
COMMODITIES AND CHARTS-?	*
Chartists are. pleased to note that- for the first time in a long while the	used in the
Dow-Jones averages are in gear with the upturn in industrials and have pushed through a previous minor rally top by a decisive margin. There may be more occasion ‘for rejoicing shortly from a chart standpoint if commodities can stage another day of strength, for the Dow-Jones commodity futures index is on the verge of bettering its January rally top, closing last night at 54.95. A push through the 55 level would carry the commodity index chart out of an area of months of inconclusive fluctuation within a trading range, and into something more suggestive- of an uptrend. Apart from the chart implication, the higher commodity price, level is encouraging for its implications for trade.	’