Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 18, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Abreast of the Market
. The public entered the market on the buying side yesterday, purchasing stocks with an enthusiasm that has not been witnessed for a long time. Trading, in fact, assumed the largest proportion* of any session this year, with the exception of March 31. when fears ol war in Europe induced heavy liquidation. Bullish sentiment was “given the gun” from time to time during the course of the day by various news items of a distinctly encouraging nature. These included an excellent earnings report by Westinghouse Electric and statements by Sen-
* a tor Wheeler and Representative Chandler indicating that the Chandler bill was likely to be enacted at this session, followed by the sharp jump in steel operations to the highest level reched thus far in 1939. Later in the day appeared the report of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours Co. showing the largest operating profits for the half year for any similar period in its history with the exception ol those of the first half of 1937. Finally, the Baltimore Ohio Railroad reported Tbadings for last week the largest for any week since the end of October. 1937. Since this system serves large industrial areas ot the East, its loadings reflect increasing activity in industry in that section
*■ While buying was pretty generally spread over the entire list, demand was most pronounced in the industrials and some of the rails. It was particularly noticeable that representative issues of the heavy industry group, regarding which, there has been considerable bearish sentiment recently, were in the van of the advance Bethlehem Steel, for instance, was up 3*2 points, and U. S. Steel 2^. Star actors of the day were du Pont. with a gain of more than 9 paints, and Chrysler with 6*^. In the closing hour of the session, the tape was unable to keep abreast of trading and fell behind as much as four minutes, again the first time in several months. To make another comparison, the advance for the day of 4.70 in the Dow-Jones industrial average was the largest recorded Bince June 29. 1938, when the average closed at 135.87 up 5.49.
The upsurge in stocks communicated itself to the bond and commodity markets, both of which were strong with increased activity.
• * •
THE PRICE MOVEMENT—
The chart of the Dow-Jones averages on this page contains, except for six trading days, the whole course so far of what appears to be a new bull market under the Dow theory- From the April 8 lows 121.44 and 24.14. the industrial ana railroad averages :ose by easy stages to highs of 140.14 June 10 and 28 45 May 31. respectively. A decline ensued which retraced more than half of those advances, with the industrials going to 130.05 on June 29 and the rails to 25.85 on June 30. Yesterday, with a very sharp increase in volume, both averages broke decisively through the May 31-June 10 highs. • It would be possible to find in the movement outlined above some causes for hesitation in calling it a definite oull-market signal. One such cause would be that the advance in thr rail average covers not even five full points. But such an advance is smal1 only in terms of the history of the Dow-Jones averages in the twenties and early thirties. Before the Great War there were whole bull and bear markets which covered as little as 15 points to 20 points in one average.
Another objection might t>e that in less than •16 months, according to the interpretations in these columns, we have had a bull market, a bear market and the start of a new bull market, whereas the shortest bull market previously recorded tn tbe averages covered some 14 months and the shortest bear market some eight months. The only answer is that last year’s 7*2 months rise which culminated November 12 still looks, in retrospect, like a bull market, though the
HOW THEY STAND—
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	July 1	Yesterday
Industrials ........	. . . -	34	7
Ralls 		. . .< 22	8
Utilities 		..... 21	2
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 		....	27	7
Rails 	.......	....	9	8
Utilities 		.... 11	1
shortest on record: and that the subsequent decline which culminated on April 8 still looks, in retrospect, like a bear market, though the shortest one on record. There is nothing in the Dow theory to prevent the stock market from making its own precedents.
Perhaps by coincidence, those previous shortest bull and bear markets also came together. being the rise from June. 1921. to October. 1922, and the subsequent decline to August, 1923.
• • •
STEEL demand BROAD—
Not only was the rise in steel operations gratifying as a business index, but the fact that it was a broad miscellaneous demand that moved the operating rate ahead was regarded in the Street as especially encouraging.
This type of demand is in the ’’consumer” rather than capital goods category, and leaves room for still higher steel production if such customers as the railroads decide to reenter the market. The higher carloadings trend indicates that the carriers this fall may really have enough money to be steel factors again..
Meanwhile, steel earnings remain a doubtful quantity. Although well past the pay-point of a year or two ago. the industry now has a high and neoulous pay-point due to the price cutting indulged in earlier this year. Only the companies which have been able to concentrate on profitable items will have very happy earnings statements at the year-end, although their volume may have been quite good.
WESTERN UNION—
When final figures are available, it is expected that June will be shown to have been the fourth consecutive month this year in which Western Union was in the black. Last week the company made public its results for May which showed $126,529 net as against a deficit of $323,775 a year ago. At the time the statement was issued R. B. White, president, stated he expected June results would show further improvement.
* • •
RADIO AND TELEVISION—
Commercially, television appears to be marking time awaiting the fall months. Dealers are not pushing sales of television receivers and find their best business in the sale of radio receivers and phonograph records. The midget type battery-contained portable receiver is enjoying great popularity, as it operates anywhere on its own power. However, the tow selling price of this type provides only a slim margin of profit.
Television receiver manufacturers are well aware that the price of sets must be reduced to obtain popularity. They believe that this will be achieved when production is stepped up with increased consumer buying. Consumers, on the other hand, appear to be awaiting better programs. The only station transmitting television in this area at present is that of Mje National Broadcasting Co . an RCA subsidiary. Under the present type of experimental hcens-Lnging. the station cannot sell time, which means that it must bear all the cost of programs without hope of immediate return. It Is believed that as soon as commercial sponsors
are permitted to buy television time, sales -of sets will increase rapidly.
‘ ' EQUIPMENT PROSPECTS--------
It is beginning to look as though another • bubble had burst so far as the railroad equipment manufacturers are concerned. Congres- 1 sional action at this -session probably will not include legislation for a federal car pool, a plan 1 put forward by President Roosevelt. More liberal federal credit would of course be welcome. : but financing arrangements already are available to the carriers on rather enticing terms.
On the other hand, rising traffic and the known plans of several carriers and car lines make it likely that this fall will see freight car buying. Although several studies have been made public lately purporting to show that the present freight car inventory could handle 800.000 weekly carloadings, these analyses seem to leave out of account the fact that cars cannot be geographically distributed so as to make use of every car. In fact, history shows that when the numerical 'surplus of available cars has approached 100.000, pinches at various spots have appeared. Neither is it possible to repair all cars on the bad order list at once. In the fall of 1936 there were scattered car pinches and the result was a buying movement involving 75.000 cars. A repetition of this situation this fall would be very welcome to car manufacturers.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.