Purely Gossip--
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 17, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
In the largest volume of trading in a week, stocks sold off with, industrials showing a substantial decline. Main selling was in heavy industries* shares with Steel, General Motors and Chrysler features. Airplane issues were under pressure, nor were leading rails overlooked in the selling.
There has been some short selling in the steel group recently, according to Street gossip, some of those traders who sold motor shares in recent weeks having now turned their bearish attention to steels. Naturally markets have been too small to permit much trading on either side, elbow room even for the most agile trader having been cramped. There was some marginal selling too from those who note the recession in trade indices and who expect that a further sliding off. partially seasonal in some instances, will be experienced in coming weeks.
• • •
Heard on the Street—
With resumption of soft coal mining, the various trade indices will be freed from the influence of distorted figures. This will apply particularly to carloadings • • • Brokers said that there was a little “stale long** selling yesterday • • • Traders were not surprised with the selling yesterday as trade statistics including steel operations have been easing to a point where the stock market is taking cognizance • • • Thin markets dominated the light trading and any accelerated selling pressure caused stocks to ease quickly • • • Profit-taking was noted in Brooklyn Union Gas which has been going ifito new high ground consistently for some time past • • • Loft had a brief moment of strength and activity but there was no news to account for the sporadic movement in this issue which has a large following among those who like lower priced issues.
• • •
Unification-
Resumption of hearings on B.-M. T. unification plans yesterday is expected to result in a satisfactory settlement by the end of week or early next week. Transit negotiators will then be able to devote full attention to I. R. T.^Ian-' hattan negotiations. If latter are brought to a successful conclusion demolition of more elevated lines will follow in due course. Omnibus companies would benefit by the latter as they did in previous razing of **L’’ structures.
Cotton Mills Weaving Rayon—
The current unsatisfactory profit margin in the cotton textile industry is resulting in more and more mills switching to the weaving of rayon. This trend, it is understood in trade circles, has been greatly accentuated in the past few months. Cotton mill consumption of rayon yarn is expected to show a large proportionate increase for the first quarter of the year.
• • •
A Technical Market—
A leading brokerage house says: "The most interesting part of the market’s dullness is that unfavorable news, such as last week’s steel price cuts and unfavorable motor car sales,1 has been generally ignored. Improvement in the technical position of the market is suggested by the increase of 133.000 shares in the short interest during April, when brokers* loans also declined by $83,000,000. In the bond market, the pressure of funds for investment is apparent in the advance of governments to ijew highs, and the return on best grade industrials and utilities to the approximate highs of the year. The same influence is at work in the stock market, where good income producing stocks have met quiet demand. While the technical rally may be approaching a resistance level, the market’s action gives the impression that no immediate decline is imminent, barring unexpected news of an unfavorable nature: and any subsequent decline may take the form of irregular* consolidation which would terminate at some levels above the April lows.”
• • • _,
Safeway Preferreds—
Reflecting the good earnings enjoyed by Safeway, the inactive preferred issues includ-Safeway, the inactive preferred issues of that company, incloding the 5% and 6% stocks, have received more attention recently on the tape at advancing prices.
• • •
One Hopeful Sign—
Perhaps one of the most hopeful sighs in the situation, in the opinion of the Street, is the comparative strength of raw material prices With business on a hand-to-mouth basis there no doubt will be substantial buying when trade improves. —The broad Street Gussu*
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.