Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 19, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Abreast of the Market
Market Diary
,,	.... Monday-
IMS 1% 1%%
Mr-----
Call money, renewal........
Time money, M days.........
Acceptances, to days...... 1 Commercial paper...........
Francs, cables............
Sterling, cables ........
New Tartu book rate........
Reserve System ratio ......
Copper, domestic ..........
Lead, New York .......«...
Silver, New York ..........
Steel scrap, Pitts., No. 1.. b Zine, East St. Louis ........
Futures: * Coffee, Rio, old, December Corn, December ...............
Cotton, old, December .... Hides, raw, December. .... Oats, December ............
Rubber. December ..........
Silk, raw, No. 1, December Sufar. raw, No. 3, March Tin,.‘Standard,. December.. . Wheat. December ...........
Wdol tops, December .......
(%«1% .0218 3.82% 1% 84.8%
12 5.50 ’•88% 17J/&ttl8 6.25
1938 1%
.mw< 4.80% 1% 82.3%
10% 5.10 42% H%«18V4
4.95
4.10
55%
8.72
14.30
34%
20.15
2.78
2.33
”88 116.0 .
4.34 «o% 7.84 10.50 26 16.17
1.68
2.05
4S.95
85
79.7
BY ROBERT TAFT AN
Russia’s invasion of Poland and the apparent collapse of effective resistance by the latter country brought a stiff reaction in financial markets yesterday. Wall Street was disposed to wonder what the next development might be and its speculation on the future'caused a wave of uneasiness to sweep through all markets.
The war over Poland was regarded as practically a closed chapter and whether this promised to lead to an unsattsfactory peace « to a war fought on many more fronts the im plications were, for the present,	££
encouraging. Steel shares opened, with deep concessions in price ranging to more than four pomts in the case of U. S. Steel. Aircraft shares, chemicals and c°mmod,i,esu’u£f"ie1?t2" the setback. Oils were depressed while util ties gave a comparatively satisfactory account ot themselves through the morning.
Efforts to recover from the initial setback, however, never were very impressive. There was a notable diminution in volume in connection with the rather ragged recovery in individual issues. Steels managed to regain from a quarter to a third of their overnight losses but the recovery stalled at that point.
There were few specialties to come forward and resume the rise, the market having exhausted its search for new speculative favorites in the past week. Consequently the market easily fell prey to secondary selling in the late dealings. Losses were extended all along the line and averaged 4 to more than 6 points in the more volatile issues.
The bond market turned heavier and commodity prices ended around their lows.
...
FREE MARKETS—
Wall Street has felt right along that maintenance of a strong stock market is dependent in a large measure on our ability to stay out of war. To become involved, it has been felt, would invite restrictions on Individual initiative nnd would bring tax measures of the type that have been discouraging markets in Great Britain, France and Canada. Free markets and absolute neutrality, in other words, are regarded as essential.
It was not altogether pleasing, therefore, to note that several of our officials in high places in Washington were reported to be questioning our abilityto "Temainireutrar. There was "all the more 'reason, therefore, to await the approaching special session of Congress and to take nothing for granted' in the meantime.
. ...
COMMODITIES—
The weakness in commodity markets was probably no more than the type of technical reaction that was to be expectep after so exten-aive an advance as we have had recently. Com
modify prices covered a lot of ground in their two-week splurge on the upside immediately after the outbreak of war in Europe; They probably tried to do in two weeks what they did in several months in 1914-1915.
Commodities, therefore, were, easy, prey to rumors of all kinds. Commodity traders seemed to be worrying over rumors that*Europe might settle the balance of its differences over a conference, table and might redraw the map of that Continent. Those reports seemed somewhat fantastic for anyone knowing anything of Great Britain's habits knows that country does not enter into a war, after elaborate preparation, only to accept an unsatisfactory peace offering in a couple of weeks. Prime Minister Chamhpr-lain and Lord-Halifax cut their bridges behind them when they stated publicly that this was a war to the finish on Hitlerism.
The greater danger, therefore, seemed to be that the war was likely to become more extensive and involved and it was that consideration that troubled? the stock market. .
• • •
WAR BABIES—
War baby stocks were most vulnerable in the stock market's decline and this is hardly surprising since their advance had taken place at an unusually rapid pace. Some brokers have been insisting right along that a retreat to the 140-145 level in the Dow-Jones industrial average might have to take place to strengthen the technical position of the market for it is in that area that a wide gap was opened when the market shot ahead immediately after Great Britain and France formally declared war on Germany.
The industrial average in falling a little under 148 yesterday covered a good deal of the ground needed to complete a technical reaction, having been as high as 155-156 about a week ago. A little additional decline probably would bring on some scale buying by those who missed the original advance.
• • »
industrial news—
The industrial news, was everything that could have been desired. The steel Industry lifted production schedules more than nine points to 79.3% of capacity starting the week. This is a remarkable advance, particularly in view of the pronounced upturn the week before, and it carried production up to a level of about early 1937. In the late summer of 1937 steel production got above 90%.
Rayon producers are experiencing record demands and some of the marginal producers have started to turn out goods at a high rate and probably are making money again. The industry is benefiting from the 'situation in foreign markets and'from the nigh costs of other textile raw materials, such as wool. Rayon prices are being held down but there is more adherence to list prices which should be beneficial to profits.
In the copper trade demand continued light and scrap copper eased Vi cent, bringing it in line with the present 12-cent price for the metal domestically. Confusion in the foreign markets, with Great Britain evidently self-sufficient and President Roosevelt frowning on rapid copper price increases here, has taken the edge off the copper buying movement.’ UTILITIES— 1	• » •
Utilities continued to do - relatively well up to the time that general liquidation hit the'mar-ket in the afternoon. Brokers consider that the public utility stocks are resting on a more solid foundation than are some of the war baby favorites that were ■ eagerly bought earlier this month. Moreover, it is felt that raw material costs ere not likely to rise as rapidly as expected earlic:. since industry is cooperating with the government to maintain* price levels at reasonably low areas,
HOW THEY STAND—		
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	Sept. 1	yesterday
	.. 48	2 •
RAUH		a., a a	... 42	8
TJtilitiPR 		LS .	20	
Decreased Earnings:		
	.. 23	2
	..	9	1
Utilities ...........	.. 11	
* . • '■ •
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
Monday on the New York Stock Exchange three stocks made new highs and 18 stocks made new lows for the year 1939.
' • •. • .
New Highs—
Abbott Lab /
New Lows— .
Am Tob ot... Celotex pf ... Cleve El 111 pf. Dayton PAL pf Ratfson Bay M.
Abbott Lab pf.
RellanM Mff.
bit Nleke) ..
A Myere B ' McIntyre Pore Nat Dal pf A.
Newberry 6 pf •Pub Ser NJ Spf
O 8 Tobaeeo..
Walker.HG&W
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.