Purely Gossip
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 18, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Whatever else was accomplished, yesterday’s strong’ market—with the industrial average closing less than two points below the. year’s high with a volume of some 1,800.000 shares— indicated that the long side is still the most popular. Brokers reported that all sorts Of buying came into the market as soon as it showed strength and continued throughout the session. There were few reactions and they were shortlived and of small proportions.
Trade news was as good as it has been for sometime and third quarter reports, so far to band, are generally up to the most sanguine predictions. This made the Street quite optimistic toward the final quarter, particularly in heavy industries companies. So far as European news was concerned, it appeared to the Street that the war was on ”in earnest.”
• * *
Heard on the Street
Douglas was the prime performer in yesterday’s market, selling up more than $5 to the highest price on record. Last high was 82 in 1936. • • • Brokers said that the airplane manufacturing shares have been behind the market ever since the war started and traders were active in the group • • • Chartists say that Baldwin and Chrysler chart formations indicate higher prices for these stocks. • • • There was considerable increase in cash buying with such stocks as Telephone. Allied Chemical and some of the quality preferred issues among those favored by investors • • » Some bulls on American Telephone & Telegraph suggest that the company may earn closer to $10 a share than $9 in the current year, -with a banner fourth quarter likely. • • • Chrysler’s action indicated that the old adage, “never sell a stock on strikes,” was still operating. Although Chrysler for some days prior to yesterday’s sharp advance had sold off on very light deslings, brokers reported no actual liquidation in the stock.
A Real Break Through?—
Chartists announced before yesterday’s opening that the formations of leading stocks indicated that the stock market would break out of its rut in the near future and consensus was that it would be on the up side. Later in the day. these chartists predicted that this week would see a penetration ot the 155 92 high for the industrial average for 1939. Brokers were rather amazed at the ease with which stocks advanced. In- some instances, replacements on the part of traders were hard to fill in selected stocks owing to the sparsity of offerings. Furthermore. it was the first time in a month that an advance had earned through to the* close and given evidence of going further. Brokers said that the accumulation of “good” business news, accelerated by higher steel operations and some especially good third quarter reports like those of du Font and Republic Steel, had encouraged potential buyers who had been on the sidelines waiting for a reaction which failed to appear.
* « •
A Business Straw—
As evidence of stimulus in the building trades a large lumber yard on the shores of Newark Bay which has been idle for years, recently is said to have had half a dozen freighters loading and unloading at its docks
Tobacco Earnings—
Although some of those tobacco shares which recently had been weak have rallied from the lows, this group has been in disfavor during the current market because no appreciable change in earnings will be shown ior any of the leading companies this year und because they are so lacking in speculative appeal In the first flush of the war market tobaccos actually declined. This was attributed to switching from the less volatile tobaccos into more speculative war babies With the reopening of the leaf tobacco market the prospects of cigarette companies, particularly, have become clearer. While 1939 is not likely to show much change in earnings, reduction in costs and a profit increase appear likelv for 1940. Recent years of high leaf tobacco costs built up a considerable amount of bank or note debt for cigarette makers, and Wall Street analysts for some time have been commenting upon the possibility of some dividend reductions to provide funds to liquidate part of the debts
A Long Dividend Record—	’
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. stockholders have just received their latest quarterly dividend of $2.25—the 200th dividend paid by American Telephone & Telegraph, which started paying dividends with No. 1 distribution on May 31, 1893. That payment was $1.25. There were a number of additional payments tn the earlier years of the company’s history: in one year, six distributions were made. IncidenlJ.il} the American Telephone & Telegraph Co. is an outgrowth of the American Bell Telephone Co., which began paying dividends in 1880.
« • *
Retailers Hopeful-
Retail dry goods stocks were quite strong and active. Obviously, this is in response to the anticipated good business for the balance of the year. Some merchants report that the final quarter has opened auspiciously with cooler weather a factor in accelerating sales.
—The Broad Street Gossip
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.