Market Reactions
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 16, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
which had been extended to Czechoslovakia. -About £3,250.000 of this had been used already. $11,800,000 Gold of Czech Bank
Official quarters in New York yesterday vindicated that gold holdings of the Czech National Bank amounted to $94,700,000 at end-'or February, of which $11,800,000 is carried in a special item as-gold reserve covering-liabilities which had--been set up in the final week of September. In addition the -bank held $39,300,000 gold of foreign exchange, some ot which may be in London.
At the end of 1938, there was a total of $24,000,000 of Czech government loans outstanding in the United States. Quotations in New York dropped 18 to 22 points yesterday in sympathy with similar weakness in foreign markets.
Three European central banks added to their store of gold held'under earmark in New York yesterday to the extent of $8,900,000 which was not shown in any official statistics. Of—this amount, the Bank of England sent $2,500,000, the National Bank of Belgium $3,700,000 and the National Bank of Switzerland $2,700,000. It was believed to have been the first shipment of Swiss metal to have been received in a considerable period and places Switzerland in company with France. England, Belgium, Holland and Sweden among countries which have transferred considerable supplies of gold to New York.
Market Reactions
A sharp break in New York stock prices and in the street markets in London and Amsterdam after the official closes of European markets followed speeches by Prime Minister Chamberlain and Foreign Minister Viscount Halifax in British Parliament yesterday indicating that the German coup in Czechoslovakia means not only end of hopes of early limitation of European arms race but is a blow to revival of confidence.
Before the close of tbe official markets in London and in major Continental centers, international financial opinion continued to view the disappearance of Czechoslovakia in comparative calm. Prices worked lower, but trading-was light and even in the foreign exchanges there was no sign of the panic which has accompanied other major European crises.
Close of official trading in London found the Financial Times industrial averages down only 1.4 points to 102.9 and the rails down 0.6 point to 45.1. Amsterdam, Paris and Brussels also reported slight declines in orderly markets.
No General Conflict Probable
Opinion here'and abroad generally held that no general European conflict is probable as direct result of the dismemberment of Czechoslovakia. Nevertheless, yesterday’s events set into motion an entirely new train of events, outcome of which cannot yet be clearly seen. Hence the market selling was viewed more as precautionary selling until outlook is clearer rather than actual war fear.
Outstanding in these developments was the official announcement in London that proposed visit to Berlin of the president of the British Board of Trade and the Secretary for Overseas Trade had been postponed, but that their visits to other nqrth European capitals will be made as originally contemplated. At the same time, Prime Minister Chamberlain admitted that private negotiations in Dusseldorf between German and English Industrialists were proceeding. Nevertheless,*-the official visits had been counted upon heavily to bring about a distinct step forward in solution of Europe’s economic difficulties.
Foreign Secretary Lord Halifax told the House of Lords yesterday that events in Czechoslovakia cannot fail to be cause disturbance of international situation and are bound to administer a check to confidence. This, he said, is regrettable since confidence was beginning to revive and was offering prospect of concrete measures, referring to recent British suggestions for world arms limitation conference and for improved trade relations. He warned that unless there is some material change in the situation these must be postponed. ■
The British government yesterday also cancelled the £10,000,000 Bank of England exedit:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.