Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 18, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Laffan
HOW THE1 STAND—
	.	Since	Additions
Increwed Earnings:	Mar.l	yesterday
	....	105	9
TEalla			,. 28	11
Utflltl^S			. ...	25	S
Decrmirrt Earnings:		
Industrials 	.,	....	331	19	‘
Trails	I....	.... 12	8 ■
Utilities 		....	70	4
Exchane,
united coni?.—' •	~	'	1
''Some' tfadenTbave' Been hesitant about buying utilities such as United Gas Improvement. Public Service of New Jersey, Columbia Gas-&-Electric-and Niagara Hudson Power because they feel" that United Corp.’s intention to reduce holdings in which-it'has more than a 10% voting' Interest may hang over the market for those stocks for some time.
The SEC recently approved the proposal of United Corp, that it invest $8,000,000 of its current funds over a period of six months in high grade non-utility securities and. to, change -its status from holding to -an ’ investment; company it must -divest itself of 'some of its large holdings of. utility stocks..,However, these holdings will not be sold gradually in' the open market but will be placed privately. It is expected. in large ‘blocks with investment institutions.	'
By Robert
A new wave of nervousness swept over the stock market Friday because of the course of events in Europe. Recall of British ambassador from Berlin for “consultation” served to illustrate that unscttlement might hang ovex the situation for some time to come. That was "the most disturbing feature of all from a market standpoint, for if no sign of early settlement of European affairs could be seen there was little incentive to embark upon a. course of confident stock buying. Wall Street also was uneasy over the possibility that Italy might shortly add to the unsettlement by pressing demand upon France for colonies.
Commodity markets, ground, of which pensated modifies modifies	_
price movements were highly erratic through the day.
Initial quotations on stocks were lower on the heaviness in foreign markets. Around midday selling gathered new momentum and ran beyond the capacity of the ticker tape for a period. Pivotal industrials lost two to fouT points and showed little rallying ability. There was fractional improvement at the close of the market over the worst levels of the day but there was little volume in connection with that improvement. A letup in the selling pressure permitted it more than anything else.
Bond markets were depressed. The generally heavy tone of our market produced additional selling in markets abroad in the trading after the official close.
their both com-com-com-
broadly, held The demand for grain and sugar, are sensitive to war possibilities, for heaviness in several other and the Dow-Jones index of futures ended unchanged. Commodity
SUGAR SHARES—
' Sugar shares, which are selling around their bear market Iowa, have not been subjected to celling pressure in the latest market weakness. Partly because they have been sold pretty much to a standstill over the past year, and partly due to the fact that sugar itself has been somewhat firmer on the war talk this week, the sugars have enjoyed immunity to the weakness displayed elsewhere in the stock market.
Many sugar securities have suffered much more.an the past year's-depression • than-'they did in the depression of 1929-1932. American Sugar Refining Co., which until recent years was regarded as an investment issue of considerable merit, paid a $2 dividend through the worst of the 1929-1932 depression, yet it was forced to suspend dividend payments in the
pf nt b Bl
otuo on .... PicJiart! Met Pattw Film . . Pitt* Coal ... Press HU <Mr. Rayonler Bae.. Riyon*r lac pf
- Reliance MfK • Reynolds Met. Stmttuck F . . Sou Porto-Rleo Superior Steel. Tide Mr A pl Tnuummeriea. Truax Traer.. Ulen A Co* Unit Stoclcyda Mayne Pump. Wright Aero. Yoquk sp a w
Sugar itself has
been selling
at
past year. _ approximately historic levels.
As to the likelihood for cyclical improvement in the sugar industry, trade observers appear to have varying viewpoints. Some contend that Secretary of Wallace’s policy has been deflationary and chiefly to blame for present low prices. His reduction in the quota by less than 2% was considered in some quarters as under expectations, but other sugar authorities are reasonably satisfied with it and believe it represents the beginning of a change in policy. Jn view of the war talk and low level of sugar prices the possibilities of improvement in some of the sugar producing companies "are considered fairly good. Producing companies are favored, particularly those that have demonstrated low costs, such as South Porto Rico* Sugar and Central Aguirre which have continued paying dividends.
aircraft shares— ,
Several houses are considering sending out renewed''bullish advices on the aircraft shares. There are unofficial estimates that Germany’s' rate of airplane; •production currently Is still well in excess of-.-that of Great Britain and France, and that the latter two -countries may find it advisable to place additional orders in this country in an effort t^ catch up with the realities of the present world situation. In th& regard, a faster and more sustained rate of armament spending is considered a certainty in the light of the past week’s happenings.
There still remains the question of where this country is going to obtain the plant capacity to handle additional foreign business. It is unlikely aircraft makers can handle more busi*, ness for delivery over the next few years without adding many new additional manufacturing facilities for ‘there is U. -S. government business to be satisfied at the moment and over the next several years. The present tendencies in world affairs are likely to put a premium on some of the smaller aircraft companies which should benefit from an overflow business. It is also considered likely that the time may be ripe for acquisitions by larger companies of some of ’the smaller makers with a view towards establishing for the recognized companies a short cut to plant expansion.	r
STEEL—
The uptrend In steel production, anticipated for this period in .preparation for spring business needs, has not put in its appearance and judging from yesterday’s reports of various producing districts the market is still highly irregular. While It Is disappointing to note that demand is still on a hand to mouth basis, there are some favorable factors which suggest that it is too early to abandon hopes for seasonal improvement. The recent sharp gains in machine* tool orders, engineering construction ' awards and recent firmness in steel scrap suggest .that there is latent strength in the steel situation.
Recovery'zin steel operations undoubtedly has been retarded by the fact that -there was an unusually sharp upturn from late last summer to the fall but whereas demand last November was running in excess of the rate of consumption there is little possibility that that has been the case recently.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.