Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 25, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Pg. 15
Abreast of
the Market
BOW THEY STAND—
Since Additions
Increased Earnings: Industrials 	  .	..	Feb. 1 ' ...	S3	yesterday 4
Rails			....	s	
	.... 22	2
Decreased Earnings: Industrials . ........	....	301	29
Rml*		_ .	....	45	1
Utilities 		....	54	1
By Robert Laffax
Fridax’s stock market was m imprcssixe contrast to some of the recent sessions, manv pivotal issues discarding the hesitancy that had been apparent for several weeks and emerging out of recent narrow price areas with a more convincing di>plav of confidence. Gains ranged from one to three points in a great manv of the pivotal issues and participation in the strength was the broadest witnessed m *onie time. T. he I*)ow-Tones rail group pushed through resistance areas *of early February and finished at its best level. Industrials were back close to their best levels and utilities likewise were back near recent peaks.
There was a good deal of discussion, in connection with the rise, of the evidence on sex’eral sides that the Admnistration was anxious to extend the helping hand to business. President Roosevelt and Secretary of the Treasury Mor-genthau recently have offered encouragement in this direction and the Street yesterday seemed to feel confident that Secretary of Commerce Hopkins would follow up that policy. Apart from that, the market had demonstrated its immunity to war talk and irresponsible rumors of late. ' The strength in British stock prices was accepted as evidence that political and business relations abroad were mending slowly but surely.
Farm equipment issues swung back to the upper limits of the recent narrow price range, and merchandising shares developed considerable strength. Coppers, steels, motors, electrical equipments seemed to attract a wider following as the session progressed. The pace was deliberate and the advance carried more conviction than some of the recent sessions, and in the last hour volume was a shade better at around the best levels of the day.
Bonds and commodities remained firm.
* * •
PUBLIC WORKS—
Those companies that are in the path of federal works projects are enjoying a substantial increase in unfilled orders and have brighter earnings prospects immediately ahead of them. Since December there has been a marked pickup in the release of orders for materials entering into work of this type.
U. S. Pipe <£= Foundry has boosted its backlog of unfinished orders to its best levels since March. 1937. the previous peak level of recent years, and the earnings results for the start of this year are the best in about eight years Another company enjoying similar expansion Ln business is Bucyrus Erie Co., which manufactures large and small types of excavating machinery for which there is substantial demand and inquiry.
Many companies that are sharing in government contract awards probably will enjoy earning power in the first half of this year well above the 1936-1937 levels.
• • •
MERCHANDISING—
Officials of several merchandising companies are beginning to climb down off the fence and take a more hopeful view of business prospects Retail trade has been somewhat improved recently and this has made quite an impression on store inventories which have been held down well under last year’s levels. Many merchants Intend to continue keeping stocks under last year’s levels, as indicated by the National Retail Dry Goods Association, but the latter agency also points out that buying of consumers goods by department stores this year will be at a substantially higher level than a year ago.
Any bulge in retail sales figures, in xnew of present low inventories, makes itself felt imme
diately in re-ordenng by retailers. Worth Street has experienced a pick-up in textile buying, which may be the forerunner of another spurt in demand for a while.
• • •
MOTORS----
Detroit’s optimism on the motor industry appears to be gaining the upper hand over pessimism of some of the statisticians in Wail Street who have been influenced recently by increased inventories of cars in factory and dealer hands, and in transit. Automobile production dropped a little this xxeek against the previous week’s total due to curtailed activity at the Plymouth plant. However, that tie-up should not embarrass the company since stocks were built up partly for the purpose of obviating a shortage of cars due to labor disturbances Sales will go ahead as usual and meanwhile the new labor disturbance is regarded as certain to bring changes in the Wagner Act which will be constructive in its long term implications.
• • •
STEELS----
Bethlehem and United States Steel’s return to leadership in the stock market is encouraging the hope that the market may be preparing to cast off its dull, sidewise fluctuations. Bethlehem has been showing exudence for some time of a preference for the upside but Steel common seemed locked in a range slightly above and below 60. Yesterday’s sustained strength in Steel common was enough to warrant hope that the market had finally made up its mind regarding the nearby outlook and strength in the stock coincided with reports of greater .firmness in steel product prices. The recent strength m steel scrap also has made a lasting impression on speculative sentiment and helped to overcome some of the doubts about the nearby outlook that have grown up as a consequence of the sluggish rate of gain in ingot production Strength m steel scrap developed after a long phase of dullness and that is regarded as of barometric importance.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.