Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 24, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
BY Robert
Wall Street suffered
worst casc'i
LAFFAN
-------------------------one of its worst cosc; oj fright over menacing European conditions since last September, resulting in a break of 5.44 points in the Dow-Jones industrial average to 141.32, or well under the November low point. Rails broke 1.97 points to 29.13 but at that level they were still above the 28.85 lows established on December 9. Utilities were dragged down in the general selling movement to 22.70. for a loss of 1.27 points.
Local brokers were disturbed to note a preponderance of foreign selling in the early dealings and bids were lacking, resulting in sharp overnight price losses. With this momentum to start with, the market was on the defensive most of the day and it gave ground fitfully to close at the worst levels of the day.
Great Britain’s stock and commodity markets never at any time have offered much support to the recovery curve traced in the United States since last summer and when prices there gave significant ground yesterday there was much uneasiness. On its trade position alone. Great Britain appears to have been backing up and doing little better than making an occasional stand. Added to that were disturbing reports that Italy and Germany will make new demands upon Great Britain and France shortly.
With seven months of unusually sharp trade gains behind it. “	”
States had reached a point where it had some of	'	"
pcaring electric offer no xiess indices have shown only slight recession. This, however, has been enougn to slow up new buying and with the European news heavily freighted with ominous tidings, yesterday’s market developed into a one-way affair, with bids pulled and offerings falling on a thin market.
the recovery in the United Lost its momentum. The figures now ap-on motor production. carlnadings power consumption and retail trade occasion for alarm and broader busi-
EUROPE AGAIN—
Those who believe that economic troubles in Europe are more to be feared than a war peril
aee some justification for their views in the current action of markets. Commodity markets are behaving badly, with rubber, hides and pepper outstandingly weak. The action of commodities broadly have been none too srimn. lating due to heavy supplies and the struggle of dictator countries for markets in competition with capitalist countries. Great Britain’s restrictions on speculation in sterling and the sagging of the London stock market to new low ground for the year yesterday, emphasizes the economic side ot current disturbances. Current supply-demand relationships are so upset abroad at the moment that actual war could have no * more disturbing effect, and might actually serve to bolster the demand for commodities a little.
The opinion of Wall Streeters who try to keep a finger on the pulse of world affairs is that this is not a war scare but another case of the jitters over trade prospects. Those who take an international view are rather critical of the United States for attracting most of the world’s gold supply and they are blaming our virtual corner of the yellow metal for intensifying world trade difficulties. Possibly this criticism is unjust in that even had we not run up the price of gold we would, m Europe s present state, been attracting gold, but cited as another example of unbalance in trade.
it is world
those more
5OMESTIC AFFAIRS—
Normally, market offerings such as -hat arc depressftig our market might be readily absorbed but there is evidence of hesitancy in domestic business recovery. The Federal Reserve business index which nas been up to the neighborhood of 104 is expected to react to the neighborhood of 9S-100 before advancing again. Bulls on the business outlook are maintaining that this is “likely to be in the nature of a “seasonal" recession and that the early spring will usher in a new phase of advance. Attempts to appraise ••seasonal” forces, however. are rendered difficult by the fact that managed credit and government spending have
distorted normal trade and seasonal sequences. Purchasing agents throughout the country are in and out of commodity markets in spurts and starts and are not immune to stock market tendencies. Their “seasonal” buying operations have on several occasions recently shown a tendency to overlap or to develop into out-ofseason buying flurries.
COPPER—
The copper market has been strikingly susceptible to mass psychology lately and has gone forward or backward rather fitfully. Sinoe the latter part of last year consuming interests have been filling their needs from hand to mouth and, perhaps unintentionally, they have crossed up the calculations of domestic producers who have been keeping an eye on consumers* diminished inventories, and expecting another buying flurfy momentarily.
Kennecott has followed the example of Anaconda by shutting down some of its domestic production. Followers of the copper situation still contend that, barring prolonged unsettlement abroad, the consuming interests in this country will not obtain a price concession. They regard the shutting down of domestic mines as reassuring to the price structure and believe that further delays in forward buying by the domestic trade will build up another situation where buyers will come into the market with a rush again. The domestic producing companies h’ave sufficient inventories at the moment to meet one of these buying flurries without reopening mines immediately.
FARM PROGRAM—
The United States farm program appears to have bogged down coincident with renewed pressure on world prices. Within the Administration there is considerable disagreement over methods of financing benefit payments. Secretary of Agriculture Wallace is a rather lonely acvocatc of the processing tax idea. The latest proposal on cotton is to have the government give farmers some of its surplus of that commodity in payment for reduced plantings. This has certain disadvantages, including the fact that it will increase unemployment in agricultural areas. With Congress attempting to curb federal spending and the farm program hampered by falling world trade and prices, the advocates of higher income for the farm population are running into increasing difficulties
The poor export movement of farm commodities is clearly indicated in rtil traffic figures which show a pronounced slump in movement of such freight against increasers *n other types of merchandise.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.