Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 28, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 11
HOW fHEY STAND—
Market Diary
<
in,
S5.S'«
10 Vi 5.05
l««10V3
4.*5
Closed 4S’M» 5.59
Closed
S»»* Closed Closed Closed Clo«»ed «?*». Closed
CloMetf
BWk
S.SO 1(1.56
Clowd CIOMMl flowed Clnued
«4T* Cloeed
l«9fc«1544
4.?5
XO’A
4.94
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	Aug. 1	Saturday
Industrials 			 237	3
Rails 			 43	4
Utilities 			 74	
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 			 96	
Rails 			 12	
Utilities 			 42	3
. • • • NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—		
Saturday on the New York Stock Exchange one stock made a new high and three stocks made new lows, for the year 1939.
New High— H&t Corp, pf New Lows—
Daren Stores	Helme. G. W..	Wilson 5S pf
BY ROBERT L-AFFAN
Issues that over the past two years have caused stock price fluctuations to narrow down into a triangle formation, or into a corner in the 1 .>0-140 range in the Dow-Jones industrial averages, began to shape themselves somewhat more clcarlv during the past week.
Tor two \ears, and especially since the start cf the current \car, the world of finance has been baffled by the incomprehensible spectacle that was Europe. The past week cleared up one point at least rather dramatically, and that was the fact that there was no essential difference between Stalin's communism and Hitler’s fascism. The so-called non-aggression pact was a rude Jolt to Great Britain inasmuch as Russia for several months had given that country some understanding that it was interested in Joining the former Allies in an effort to stop Germany’s expansion. Unexpected though that pact was in the circumstances in which it was arrived at, it cannot truthfully be paid that it was utterly unforeseen since many observers of the foreign acene had warned of it as a possibility.
The importance of the Russian-German pact, financially, was that it cleared to some extent the muddled state of affairs abroad. The little war m Spain of fascism against communism, it Feems, was all a big mistake and now the capitalistic world can see matters in their true perspective. Unpleasant as the view was, it at least stripped the scene of some of its complexity. All preconceived notions of the foreign situation had to undergo a change in view of the sudden shift in Russia's affiliations.
Tbe main concern, of course, was the attitude of Germany toward the peace front now that Russia had been removed as a possible enemy.
BRITISH MONEY RATES---------
First financial effects of the new tension in Europe was abandonment by Great Britain of the cheap money policy which it has maintained for the past seven years. The Bank of England jumped its discount rate to 4% from 2%, the first move since mid-1932, and rates on short term bills were sweepingly revised. Two-months' paper was lifted to	against 5-16 of
1% the day before. Three to six months bills also were raised sharply. . In the war crisis the government wanted to make it unattractive for private - business or speculators to 'draw down on funds which the government needed for furthering its armament projects and defense measures. Thus. Great Britain’s peace-time industries which have been under a severe handicap for months were subjected to additional strain due to the emergency.
The withdrawal of official support for sterling came a little sooner than anticipated in some
banking quarters here but a lower pound was regarded as inevitable—so much so that our own Treasury Department discussed no plans for further cheapening of the dollar, recognizing Great Britain’s necessity for stopping tbe outflow of its remaining gold and, incidentally, the inevitableness of a lower pound.
• • •
SPECULATION—
Speculation in stocks and commodities here became the sheerest kind of gambling since events were moving at such a rapid and unpredictable pace that price movements reflected spur-of-the-moment moods rather than fundamentals. Fortunately, our stock market is not burdened with extensive margined holders of stocks. It is also true that the short interest is sub-standard in 6ize and is carefully regulated Affairs, therefore, tend to balance out and there is no reason why investors cannot continue to make their own market according to carefully arrived at conclusions and under any conceivable circumstances. The floor trader and the professional trader never had such a slight effect upon market prices as today. His rather excitable efforts to appraise hour to hour changes in the complexion of the news have as often as not been erroneous and his mistakes or successes balance out usually with only a rippling effect upon the price structure.
The investment outlook, of course, will change according to the prospects for war or peace. There is bound to be a great deal of switching in the type of security held depending upon whether one is preparing for a peacetime or wartime economy. On a peacetime basis, and assuming a continuance of easy money and consequent low yielding common stocks, the market level appears well underpriced. Wartime factors and those that affect money rates naturally must be regarded as likely to bring readjustments.
• • •
MARKET—
For a clue as to the direction of the next broad move in the market the performance of the Dow-Jones industrial average as it moves out of the 130-140 range may bear watching for there has been a great deal of studied attention given to the market in that area recently. Whether it has been accumulation or distribution will depend upon the course the market takes as it emerges in volume..
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.