Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 23, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
HOW THEY STAND—
Since
.038411 4.W4 1% 84.3% X1.2A 4.85 4.50	1%% 1% .0395 4.98% 1% SO.4% 19 4.50 4444 1S%©14 4.38
4.09	4.03
47%	5944
K.17	S.R1
1O.4B	8,«3
29%	30
IS.84	13.88
3.13	3.49%
1.90	3.11
45.35	41.30
«7%	
39.5	78.5
Increased Earnings:
Industrials .........
Rails.....................
Utilities ................
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials ..............
Rails ................ •...
Utilities .........
Mar. 1
124
31
36
412
16
93
Addition yesterda;
4
io
17
14
Bid and asked prices	be found on
14.
1937, and the percentage of net profit to sales for some of the leading .industries:
Return on >’et Wirtti Return on ----------	193”	193< 1 O	1	.
1”.”	1	.	,
>. ) . 1	1	.
1j»>	1	j
W •»	., *■
1 »	*»
A	.	.
1 . . .
1 * '	II
2n	u’e
1”.	9.8
net profits are interest, taxes In to sales, is consid-
Agricultural lmplemcfits Automobiles .........
Buildinc materials . . . . Chemicals.............
Dairy products . . . • • Electrical eulpment . . • . Iron apd steel ........ Liquors.......
Mdse.—Chains, food . . • • Mdse.—Chains, other •. Mdse.—Dept, stores . . . Mdse —Mall order . • - .
Mining, copper ......  .
Office equipment ...... Tobacco .... ........
it.” 2 .
’.a
1 .3M F
1—
ItMl
1 -S
1
In the foregoing figures ured after depreciation, * other charges but before dividends, tabulation on net profit in relation investment and miscellaneous income ered part of net profit.
13.9
8.7 fig-and the
By Robert Laffan
Once again dependent upon the overnight news, Wednesday's stock market weakened on the fall of Al cm el and the apparent unbroken Rome-Berlin axis. Cables later indicated that France was negotiating with Italy for a settlement of the latter's Colonial demands and the market enjoyed a respite from liquidation ©n this news. However, the close showed substantial losses, amounting to 3.90 points in the industrials for the dav, 1.05 for the rails and 0.91 for the utilities. At the close, industrials were at 139.51, or about three points above their January low of 136.42. Rails were down to 28.96, against the January low of 27.93.
London was weak before our opening and again our stock market trend was fairly well established in the early dealings. Losses were extended before the morning ended and the tape fell behind the pace of liquidation on the floor. Rallying efforts again proved feeble and the market did little better than mark time in some of its better moments.
Trading initiative was paralyzed for few short swing operators were willing to essay overnight commitments in the face of uncertainties abroad and our market's tendency of late to open with fair sized gaps, either on the up or down side.
There were no “war babies'* pushing up against the general trend for the unusual features of the present situation appeared to blanket everything. The threat of a special tax on war-time profits, introduced in the Senate, was given some serious consideration. Pivotal industrials los* up to nearly 4 points and finished only a shade above the lows for the day.
Bond prices were jower from the start.
• • •
WAR TAXES—
A complementary cause of nervousness in
our market yesterday was the news that a war-time taxation program calling for a drastic graduated tax on corporate and individual incomes had been introduced in the Senate by Senator Bone, with the backing of a substantial number of other senators.
As applied to corporations there would be a tax of 15% on net incomes not in excess of 2% of their adjusted declared value, 25% on net incomes not in excesft of 6% and 100% on incomes in excess thereof.	•
Just what is meant by “adjusted" declared values is not indicated, but a unmber of investors were making inquiries in Wall Street about this proposal. It did much to curtail buying interest in equities that normally obtain war orders. While there was widespread sym-pthy with the object of preventing profiteering on war business the fact remains that to win a war, or even conduct one. private capital in a democratic or capitalistic system must be attracted to business enterprise. Many felt that opportunities for profit, while thev should be limited, must be commensurate with the risk
On the surface, the war-time tax proposal and the theory that you could pay for war as you go along seemed headed for substantial modification before being put into practice. We have not found a way yet to pay for our unemployment out of current income, and President Roosevelt continues to stress that point, therefore it seemed improbable that we could finance a war out of current income.
• • •
LIMITING PROFITS—
Taxing profits 100% in excess of 6% of “adjusrted declared values'* would r impose a hardship on industries that in peacetime have been accustomed to fairly substantial earnings. A study prepared last year by the National City Bank in which profits of approximately 2,000 business firms were analyzed showed that a majority of our major industries were earning during 1936 and 1937 in excess of 6% of their net worth. Likewise, a majority were earning in excess of 6% of their sales. There is no way of knowing, of course, whether sponsors of the war-time tax proposal mean net worth, or sales when they mention “adjusted
declared values" but in view of the fact that peace time earnings in relation to net worth and sales have exceeded 6% and in view of the recent grant to aircraft companies of a 12% average rate of profit averaged over five years there would appear to be substantial basis for asking Congress to reconsider modify materially a tax program of the outlined, before enacting it into law.
Following, taken from the National
and type
City Bank survey, shows the percentage return on net worth for principal industries in 1936 and
STEEL SCRAP—
In a different setting, one where events were not dominating market attentions, some of the domestic news might have attracted more interest. Cleveland reported advances of 75 cents to $1.25 a ton in steel scrap. The strength is partly accounted for by the fact that that district has been somewhat out of line with Pittsburgh and other districts but it was pointed out that the upturn was' also indicative of a stronger price undertone. Detroit also reported an increase of 50 cents a ton. part of this being due to seasonal reasons, following opening of the Great Lakes navigation season.
Steel shares were hardly in a mood to respond to indications that the steel scrap pnee improvement, which was anticipated a few weeks ago, had arrived. A prompt clearing up of European' disturbances might enable the steel market to stage a spring upturn but any prolonged wrangling abroad probably will affect business sentiment and modify seasonal improvement in the steel industry.
European
COMMODITIES—
Commodity markets acted as though they were highly uncertain about the European situation ana gave no indication by their action that war was imminent. The grain markets changed very little on the day. This market is struggling with large supplies and traders are not inclined to take much of a long position merely on a gamble that war may develop out of the present situation abroad. Cottonseed oil, another war commodity, did little yesterday. Sugar moved up to new high ground for this move, but this was attributed in trade quarters to an improved trade position more than to war influences. Other commodities that might have been expected to weaken in the event of war news were little changed.
Brokers who have received requests from customers about the advisability of taking positions in war commodities reiterate the beliel that prices would work higher in the event ol active trouble, but they are suggesting that buying be deferred temporarily on the assumption that there will be ample time to take long term positions in these commodities when and if there are active hostilities.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.