Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 1, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
HOW THEY STAND—
	Sine*	Addition,
uncreisse^ E®*nlng*r	Mar. 1	;-=sterdaj-
Industrials 		 ..	..	147	2
Raila		...	43	1
Utilities 	.	...	31	2
Decreased Earning*: Industrials 				..	530	15
Rails		. ..	25	
Utilities 		...	127	4
Stacis that made new Intjhs and low foe Tear will be found on Page 14.
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Stocks broke badly after a dull and unimpressive bulge in the early dealings. The British-French decision to defend Poland in the event of attack increased the war tension in a marked degree. It heightened nervousness oxer the next move of the dictators and. with the
market hesitating just over critical areas—the January lows—there was a rush for liquidity.
Liquidation also was prompted by concrete evidence that domestic business has been suffering a relapse recently. Ward’s estimate that motor production was being lowered this week was taken as confirmation of reports that the automobile industry was meeting a disappointing demand and was under the necessity ot lowering production schedules to prevent further accumulation of cars. The steel districts showed none of their customary spring vitality.
The news and tension were set against the
uarket and prices were driven down in successive waves. Losses of two to four points were commonplace. High grade industrial issues svere Hy	severely, indicating that some
influential selling was under way. Chartists bearish as they realized that support ibove the January lows was crumbling. Near the close there was some margin selling. ■
The tape	h^hind floor transactions
sevewl times, n^ch time 1? —tught up “rices advanced from their lows so zeebly that v pe observers could read no encouragement into tne performance. The close was at around the lows of the day.
__ • • • , MOTORS—
Reduction in automobile production schedules for the. latest week helped to produce selling in the motor shares. Several Street firms are worried about the size of automobile stocks. Goodbody & Co. yesterday estimated that stocks of passenger cars and trucks had increased contra-seasonally by 10.3% in March. The last previous year in which such an increase had occurred, it was said, was in 1939 and that year is not comparable to 1939 since it was a different model year. The firm estimated that stocks were now at a new high level for five years, being 13% above inventories at the end of March. 1938, and 42% above those at the end of the same quarter in 1937.
Various reasons are advanced for both this contra-seasonal increase and new high. It is
said attempts are being made to follow a new policy of evening out production over the last, first and second quarters of the year. Goodbody says.
While It is recognized that a good spring business might well have absorbed these extra stocks, the current business uncertainty and slackening retails sales in relation to the season do not create a favorable background at the moment.
OILS—	,
The Texas Railroad Commission continues to keep the oil trade and oil investots tn a perplexed state due to the rapidity with which commissioners	their minds over meth-
ods of .dealing with oil production. First it was planned to raise production to six days from five and when this encountered opposition it was announced by one of the commissioners that the order would be rescinded. However, chairman Lon Smith apparently was not in agreement with that solution of the problem. An order has now been issued requiring some reduction in production in fields outside the East Texas area, and authorizing a blx-day production week. In other words, the East Texas producers will be favored over producers in other areas within that state. There are many complaints over this method.
* • *
SCHULTE RETAIL STORES--------
On the basis of the new plan of reorganization proposed by Schulte Retail Stores the preferred stock should sell for about SI times the common stock. For each 100 shares of preferred stock 325 shares of new common are being offered, whereas each holder of 100 shares of common will get four new common shares. The stocks actually have been selling at a ratio of ten for one or less. Under a plan proposed a year ago the ratio between the two classes of stocks was much closer.
• • •
STEEL ACTIVITY—
In xdew of the disappointing^trend in automobile retail sales it is natural* that the steel industry should fail to show much evidence of spring expansion, especially since it is dependent in large measure on buying by the motor manufacturers. Operations in the Youngstown distinct this week have slipped to 5Q% of capacity from 53% at the start of the week but on the basis of present intentions there will be a recovery to 51% at the start of next week. Still, this is not a particularly inspiring performance for this time of year and undoubtedly the tension in world affairs has done much to hurt domestc business of late.
Some people in the steel trade also are rather disappointed over the inability of Washington to grapple with economic problems of late.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.