Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 27, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
HOW THEY STAND—
Market Diary
C*O money, renewal ...... Time money. 00 day* ..... Aeneptaoee*. *O day* ..... Canimerrtai paper ......... Franea. cablr* ...........
Sferllnc. cable* ..............
New Tori* Bank rate...... Reserve System ratio ......
Copper, domestic...............
Izad. New York ......... Silver. New Ynrii ........ Steel scrap. fPttt*. No. 1).. Zinc, eaat fit. Loola .....
rnurrer: '
Coffee, fUo. March ....... Corn. Maj ..................
Cotton. March .	.......
Hides, old. March...........
<>f»t«. May	... ..
Rubber. March ..	. .
MUc. raw. N'«*. 1. March.. *»urar. raw. No. 3. March.. Tin. standard. March .... Whmt. Maj ..................
hooi tups. July ............
.	ThorMay	.	
1031	1936
1%	
	
	1%
.03 64 fy ♦.67 A	.0332*. 5.00 A 1%
	
64.0%	60.2%
11.25	lO^S/IU*^
4.75	4.00
42*.	
4.SO	5.00
4.IS	4 44
510*	«0 V*
5.37	5.40
B 94	« 63
2HA4	sn«
15.15	14.64
1.39	1 47
1.H3	2.34
44.35	40.40
	IM Ml
61.0	75.7
Thursday, on eight stocks ma made new lows New Htgbs—
Owe. J I pf. Cot GJtEflpfB. .
Hamll Mai pf New Low»—
Can Pacific. • • Ctieaapeake C'D Gillette pf . .
Stocks were subjected to further heavy selling yesterday and prices gave ground throughout the list. After recently displaying impressive resistance above the December low of 28.85. rails, used in rhe Dow-Jones averages substantially penetrated that level, thereby confirming the recent bearish action of industrial shares.
While this situation docs not mean, under the Dow thcorj. that the major trend of the market has reversed itself, it signalled an intermediate downtrend and tended to heighten the caution of followers of the theory.
Large offerings from London of representative American shares, particularly carrier issues. were thrown on the market at yesterday’s opening here. This development gave background to reports that British banks were calling loans on American securities as part of the government’s program to bolster sterling. After the early liquidation had been absorbed, the general list displayed rallying tendencies toward noon
However, the European situation continued to dominate trading sentiment and renewed liquidation appeared in the afternoon following Mussolini's speech hailing the fall of Barcelona. French Foreign Minister Bonnet’s statement was another disturbing factor, and prices closed around the day’s lows, activity increasing sharply In the final dealings.
Domestic business news was generally favorable. Bethlehem Steels* net of 56 cents a common share in the final 1938 quarter exceeded advance estimates, while carloadings showed a small gain last week in a period which normally sees a downward trend.
RAILS—
That streak of stubbornness which enables the market to brush aside all developments contrary to its mood of the moment was in evidence yesterday. In the face of some excellent earnings reports for December, the rails as a group acted no better than the balance of the list. The fact that carriers such as Southern Railway and Northern Pacific had December net operating incomes substantially better than had been anticipated was lost in the continued selling from European and domestic sources Doubtless such news items, along with a contra-seasonal increase in loadings last week, will be given clue consideration when the .prevailing liquidating movement has run its course and the market is selling ex-the European situation. Railroad executives who have been on record for some months as predicting a steady improvement in business are still of that opinion; Presi-
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings-	Jan. 1	yesterday
Industrials 		....	32	1
Rails		.... 28	
Utilities 		....	15	1
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 		. ...	S2	5
Rails 			 37	5
Utilities 			 39	2
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
the New York de new highs for the years
Stock Exchange, and nine stocks 1939-38.
Hanna MA 0 pf Hou*eb bln pf. Pub Ser NJ fipf
Pub Ser NJ Spf SafewaySt 1 pf
Kaufmann D S Nat Supply . . Ohio on 
Outlet Co pf. Sehenley Diet. Weaeon O & 6.
dent Jeffers of Union Pacific yesterday declared he looked for business to hold in its present upward trend. In the midst of the weakness in rail equities, the rehabilitation program of which so much had been heard appears to have been lost in the shuffle so far as its importance as a market factor is concerned.
ROLL-YOUR-OWN—
Reports from some Individual companies, and the aggregate figures as reported by the Internal Revenue Bureau, indicate that there was a fairly substantial Increase in 1938 in the consumption of “roll-your-own" cigarettes. Accurate appraisal of the size of this market is impossible because the figures for that kind of tobacco consumption are jumped with other smoking and chewing tobacco under the heading “manufactured tobacco". The total output for this general division last year rose 5,000,000 pounds. The trend bad been downward for a number of years. This has led to the assumption that hand-made clgerattes accounted for a good part of the increase. A conclusion drawn from such figures is that when better times permit, the smoker will buy ready-made cigarettes rather than roll his own.
STEEL EARNINGS—
Fourth quarter earnings of the steel companies are likely to prove to be much better on the average than the Street had anticipated. This is indicated by the substantial increase in net income reported by Bethlehem Steel, and the improvement estimated in forecasts which have appeared thus far. Operations in the steel industry were at a comparatively high rate in the December period, with Bethlehem aver, agring about 5612%. There has been some letdown since the beginning of this year for most companies. This is due. according to trade sources, to the tendency among the steel makers to keep their production about in line with the specified requirements of their customers.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE—
One of the features of the international markets is the dullness in the foreign exchanges, with exception of Dutch guilders. The guilder has been sagging steadily Part of this is undoubtedly due to transfer into sterling of part of proceeds of recent 100.000.000 guilder Batavia Petroleum loan. Most of the weakness however, is due to steady transfer of foreign funds out of
Holland into this country accompanied by speculative sales of the Dutch currency. Thia is probably purely political rather than indicating deterioration in Dutch economics.
• • •
ASPHALT—
Asphalt, a by-product of the petroleum industry. has suffered seriously in price In the last 12 months due to an enormous oversupply. At present, with announcement by the Administration that plans are being considered to use WPA funds in the construction ot transcontinental and north-and-south highways that would serve a military purpose, the oil industry is undertaking a campaign to urge its use for a fair share of highway surfacing. The industry contends that it has financed practically all the billions of dollars of highway construction in the U. S by furnishing the commodity that pays the gasoline tax, and that, furthermore, the cost of financing highways with products made from petroleum is only a fraction of that paid for other products commonly used.
* • «
AIRCRAFT PROSPECTS------
Each day the developments in Europe seem to be at work for those advocating the national defense program in this country. If there had been any doubt whether Congress would approve the plan to spend an additional $170,000.000 for aircraft it would seem to have been dissipated by this time. Reports are now current that instead of cutting this appropriation, it is more likely that House military affairs committee may see fit to increase the sum proposed for airplanes in the President’s message.
* * *
PAPER COMPANY EARNINGS—
Not enough of the paper companies have reported yet on earnings to give a complete‘picture of the situation which prevailed last year, but those reports available to date have shown that “specialty’’ paper makers fared better than the general industry. Where International Paper operated in the red for the first eight months of the year, and other of the large producers had profits cut as much as 90%. Sutherland Paper Co for the nine months ended September 30 last year earned 70% as much as in the same period of 1937 and Consolidated Paper Co of Detroit earned $S43 385 for the full year against $1,301,658 in 1937. Sutherland makes paper plates, waterproof packages and other specialties, and Consolidated makes automobile panel, fiber and other board.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.