Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 31, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 39
Abreast of the Market
By Robert Laftan r Thursday's market break developed so swiftly and nut of such an .apparently calm background that it caught Wall Street almost unaware. There was a quiet and stead\ tone during the morning, which seemed to satisfy the Street that stock would continue marking time in this narrow range. But earlv in the afternoon support collapsed under heavier offerings and losses were extended ter 3.06 points in the Dow-Jones industrials. 1.14 in 'rail-, and 0.79 in utilities, leaving the averages only a shade above the January lows.
Rumors flew thick and fast through the financial district, and many individual interpretations of the nature ol the trouble appeared. Many thought the market was responding belatedly to the tense situation created by the Daiadicr speech and there was some concern over Italy’s reaction to it » Rumors of impending trouble m Poland could not be confirmed. However, heaviness in the Swiss franc through the morning added to the concern over foreign aftans.
Of greater concern, to many in the Street, was the fact that all this nervousness was not enhancing the spring and summer business outlook. Unlike last September when the Munich settlement lifted the tension, there was nothing on the horizon to indicate early .«<ettlement of foreign affairs and many traders and investors felt under the circumstances that they must write off hopes for domestic business for the months ahead, realizing that business here will be prey to rumors if not to actual adverse developments.
All classes of stocks shared m the weakness p.nd there was only comparative steadiness in the so-called war babies.
LITTLE TRUST SELLING—
So far as can be determined there has been no heavy selling by investment trusts recently. Two of the larger institutions have lightened up some but by and large trusts appear to be fairly well invested and disinclined to do much in these nervous markets. Surveying portfolios, several have decided that close to three-fourths of their portfolios are made up of stocks of a type that could be regarded as a war-time hedge, that is. assuming trouble broke out abroad and did not involve this country There is little disposition to consider hedges in war time commodities, except by speculative individuals.
• • •
COMMODITIES—
The behavior of commodities has been extremely confusing, and traders and brokers who operate in staples are unable to determine whether war or economic troubles are the paramount influence in price weakness. There have been some heavy losses taken in commodities recently and there are some heavy paper losses outstanding. Hides were down 35 to 37 points
Large world stocks of some of these commodities apparently are confusing some of those traders who normally would be inclined to buy commodities here.
* • •
SEARS-ROEBUCK—
The comparatively good market performance of Sears-Roebuck in recent weeks is a reflection of the sales record of that company which has been superior to the average merchandising company. Sales for the four weeks ended March 26 were 15.6% ahead of the like week a year ago, or well above the rate of gain for retailers generally. For the eight weeks ended March 26 sales were up 14.5%.
Throughout February and early March. Sears-Roebuck common made some effort to equal the peak of approximately 80 established last October, but the recent weakness in the market carried the stock back to the vicinity of 70, where it was still a few points above its January low. Maintenance of the good sales record accumulated through the first quarter ot this year naturally Is dependent upon business conditions generally, and that in turn will'be determined by outcome of present uncertainties hanging over financial markets. Retail trade In the past week to ten days has felt the effect of weak security markets.
♦ • •
BUSINESS—
Reports from the motor trade have been less satisfactory recently, sales slowing up some on unfavorable weather conditions and contraction in consumer interest in motors, awaiting clarification of the European outlook. There are some reports in the Street that production schedules for April and May will have to be cut down to prevent accumulation of stocks in dealers hands, but people close to the motor situation are not inclined to jump to this conclusion too quickly realizing that business has been affected by some extraordinary* developments However, the large part the automobile industry plays in our business situation naturally has an effect on business aentiraent generally’.
As a contrast to the pessimistic viewpoint on business, the Barron’s business index registered some improvement for the latest week.
• • •
DOMESTIC SUPPORT—
Some brokers reported dissatisfaction with domestic affairs. The statement of Congressional leaders during the day that there is little prospect of tax relief, other than the proposed changes m Social Security* taxes, was regarded as unsatisfactory. Then too there were some business statements not on the favorable side. Bohn Aluminum Co reported that business during the past month was not satisfactory and the chairman of New England Power Association remarked thRt the company's charts ot industrial conditions recently* were less favorable.
Under normal circumstances such reports might be accepted but m combination with foreign rumors, the stock market found it difficult maintaining its poise.
yesterday, and rubber and copper weakened sharply. While there was some evidence of strength m war commodities, such as grains and cottonseed oil. such strength has not been particularly marked. Sugar, another war commodity, was unchanged. Pepper, which offhand might appear to be a commodity that would attract little interest on the part of outsiders, apparently has caused seme large trading losses in the past year, breaking from around 9 cents a pound in the past year to about 3’- cents, or to historic low levels measured in terms of dollars. Pepper apparently was accumulated a year ago by many wealthy individuals as • a hedge against inflation bu* it has proved to be a poorer hedge than most common stocks
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.