Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 21, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Abreast of
the Market
Market. Diary
HOW THEY STAND—
i.iiii mig. c«D>n .. ........ Now Xork bank rate...... Barna»<i Syvtam nuJo ...... Coppm. Oaowotte ......... T—d, New York...............
SUver. New York ............
Steel eerwp,	No. 1)
Z1BC. East St. Loah ...... Bktttrea:
Coffee. Rte. M*rch..........
Com. May ...........
Cottoe. March ........... RMea. oUS. March ...........
Oata. May...................
Bobber. March •• ........ Silk, raw* No. 1. March.. Sugar, raw. No. 3. March.. Tin. Standard. March .... Wheat. May .................
Wool tope. March............
	
1333	1338
1%	1%
	
	1%
	.0S28V^
	s.oit*
1«3.	• 1*^
34.1*K>	80.3*3.
31.33	19
4.7S	4.50
48^4	«4^»
4.30	14O14Mr 4.73
4.SI	4.33
49**	33*4
S.4R	9.13
’’.OS	9.26
	31’4
34.17	ib.cro
.93	.59
.73	2.21
4.«.25	4 .95
	92^
81.3	77.4
Increased Earnings;
Industrials .......
Rails .............
Utilities..........
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials .......
Rails..............
Utilities .........
Since
Feb. 1
68
7
19
232
43
48
- Additions yesterday 4
9
23
2
1
BY Robert laffan
The week started rather disappointingly with a fresh crop of war rumors that apparently were rather mystifying to some of the capitals of Europe, but which served to unsettle a market that is easily a prey to war fear. T.'roop movements by the French and Italians were viewed with some concern, particularly in view of President Roosevelt’s week-end comment on “ominous” tidings from abroad.
Th cry of “wolt” has left professional traders skeptical, but since there is •'no telling when, the menace may be real, there was little to do tout beat a slow retreat marketwise. Opening prices were down and the wire houses reported public selling. The disadvantage was keenly felt in a thin market and bids melted fairly rapidly. The trading pace dragged through, the muiday dealings but in the last hour prices gave some additional ground and finished only a trifle above the worst levels of the day, with losses of 2 to 3 points in many of the pivotal industrials.
Through the lull m midday dealings, there was some strength in American Stores on the Pennsylvania court decision against the chain store tax bill passed in 193". In addition to the shadow of foreign affairs, there was some dissatisfaction with the spotted nature of business reports. Steel activity receded a little at the start of the new week on slow motor buying. The major business indices have given no clear indication as yet that the mild sagging tendency has been arrested. '
Bond prices were a little easier, but commodities were steady.
* * *
FOREIGN MARKETS—
Apparently the London stock market did not share our nervousness over the European situation for there was very little change in the London Financial Times averages yesterday, rails being off 0.4 point to 38.S while industrials were unchanged at 100.3. The industrials, in fact, gave a rather strong exhibition in holding the sharp gains of late last week.
President Roosevelt’s week-end pessimism on the situation abroad was responsible for some public liquidation in the morning but Wai’ Street generally, though it was keenly disappointed that the market strength of late Saturday failed to carry through on the upside, was reluctant to turn to the selling side It was reasoned that if there were grounds for suspecting that a new* crisis* abroad was brewing, the London stock market should be extremely sensitive to it. Many traders have given up attempting to figure out the behind-the-scenes political movements abroad and are looking daily to British stocks to render an impersonal verdict on that situation.
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS— Monday, on the New York
16 stocks made new highs and new lows for the	’
Nev. Hlgtis—
Allied 8tm t»f Am Stores Arnold Const*. Detroit Edlwm. Diam’d Matci*, lnt Ry CenApf
New Low
Acme Steel ..
Am Can .... Am Com Ale AmRoll Mill pf Att Refining.. tternada.il .•* Borg tlamfr. Byron Jaekun Chile topper. Coll A <llc pf. Cont Dtam F
year 1939.
Helms. W». KooHton OU . . KelttJ-AI-Or rrf M*rac*lt*o OU. Mo K*n Tei pf Mun«lngwrar . Norwalk T pt Otis Elevator. Park & TllfnrO Penick A Forts Phil Morris pt
Exchange,
Stock
33 stocks made
by mid-month, as demand exceeded expectations.
STEEL—
Extent of spring demand for cars will have a considerable bearing on steel operations in coming weeks. Sluggishness in the rate of recovery in steel operations since the turn of the year is believed to be due to limited buying of motor steel products, otherwise with structural and rail demands rising there would by this time have been a bulge in steel production to last fall’s level.
The recession in the American Iron & Steel Institute production schedule for this week to 53.7a, a loss of 1 1 points from the preceding week, was rather surprising in view of the nse in operations at several scattered steel districts late last week. However, production at Buffalo has been lowered and this is believed to be a reflection of slow motor demands. It is believed motor companies have allowed stocks of steei to dwindle and that as spring needs assert themselves they will be back in the market for steel products.
BUILDING PRICES—
Failure of building shares to become more responsive to bullish FHa figures on the residential building outlook is believed to be due in part to cautiousness over the government's scrutiny into building material prices. These issues, however, also have been affected by the need for a period of consolidation of the rapid gains marketwise since the summer of last year.
From a price investigation standpoint, some brokers believe that cement, gypsum products, and plumbing materials may be in for some criticism. However, it is not believed likely that the industry will be subjected to severe censure at this time. Labor still constitutes a large item in building expenses and the Administration hardly can attack that phase of building costs.
MOTORS—
Detroit is less inclined to worry about spring business prospects than are some of Wall Street’s statisticians. While field stocks have been built up pretty well, partly to stabilize production and partly as protection against possible labor trouble, there seems to be little doubt in the minds of motor people that the spring will bring an upturn of about seasonal proportions.
Looking ahead, it is recognized that new model shutdowns will come earlier this year than in the recent past due to large scale model changes which will require somewhat longer changeover period. Then too, the New York show opens October 15, against November 11 in 1938, which means the late summer-early fall selling season will be three weeks shorter than in 1938. But It seems premature to attempt to borrow trouble on that account for the motor trade expects to be selling cars, whether 1939 or 1940 models* all year so long as public demand holds up. Likewise with spring business, which will depend more upon general conditions than the methods several automobile companies have adopted for spreading their work. One ot the big three companies that was worrying about its field stocks at the beginning of this month was glad it had dealer supplies on hand
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.