Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 20, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
BY ROBERT LaFFAN
Stocks yesterday recovered practically all the ground lost the day before. That is, the advance in the Dow-Jones industrial averages 4.36 points was about equivalent to the loss ®f Klondav. Rails did a little better thgji re-fcm er losses while the utilities fell a little short ©i recapturing the previous day's decline.
Those who trade on an hour to hour "basis fcad ready explanations for the market’s performance. On ^Iondav it was the rumor of a peace offering that brought on the late reaction in prices, and yesterday, judged on the •ame standards, it was Hitler’s militant speech that brought renewed buying into war stocks and stimulated the general market. Both explanations appeared somewhat superficial although the market action fell into that pattern conveniently.
Assuming that Hitler did have any intentions of offering a peace proposal, there seemed to be little ground for believing such a proposal would be acceptable to Great Britain in view ©f the unequivocal statements of Prime Minister Chamberlain and other officials that a Polish defeat or surrender would make little difference in Great Britain’s determination to war on Hitlerism to the finish. Assuming, therefore, Hitler had offered the olive branch it is hard to see what difference it could have : the circumstances in which such would be made
The market appeared, rather, to 1 Ing to a normal technical pattern, rumor of a peace proposal	“
seriously considered—had a hollow sound and the late selling had all the earmarks of producing a temporary selling climax. The opening yesterday was higher from the start, before the market had any knowledge of what Hitler jwas to say. After the speech the market continued its recovery, with the advance proceeding at an accelerated pace-
industrial news also was a helpful factor and railroad equipment shares responded to evidence of large inquiries from railroads.
Commodity markets were erratic and bond prices were firmer all day.
made under an offering
be confirm. Mondav’s •one that could be
RAIL EQUIPMENT—
A brisk demand for railroad equipment
•hares asserted itself from the start of trading,	___*____________________ Ifi ^.ex-
inspired by estimates by Jesse Jones. Federal r ^sidcrably behind levels of recent years, but the "	-	i	difficulties have been due entirely to price and
production problems, both of which appear to stand a chance of showing some ^pr^vement in view of the better position the outbreak of tbe war.
Loan Administrator, that carriers were considering equipment repairs -within the next six Xnonths at a cost of from $50,000,000 to $75,-©00,000.
Railroad freight car buying has been improving rapidly in recent weeks and a repair program is being stimulated in anticipation of future demands. Approximately 25,000 new cars sre on order or are under consideration. Some ©f these will be built in ra:'**oad shops, as tn the case of the Pennsylvania Railroad program. Many others, however, wil1 be placed with car
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
York Central
has entered the
builders. New marketfor 4,000 cars.
The present volume of freight traffic is inspiring the larger part of the equipment buying and modernization programs. Some of these cars were on order, or under consideration, before the war in Europe broke out. The recent spurt in business activity has tended to hasten placement of the equipment business.
AIRCRAFT FLANT EXPANSION__________
Aircraft manufacturing- plants on the West Coast appear to be preparing plant expansion programs without regard for the outcome ot debate in Congress on the Neutrality Act. Probably the extent of the proposed increases in capacity is regarded as essential by manufacturing interests regardless of the decision in that matter.
Tt is probable that one certain outcome of the situation in Europe will be a program of increased defense expenditures in the years to come in view of the trend toward building stronger national security. Many individuals with varying opinions on the neutrality matter are discussing the need for diverting some of our public spending into national defense channels	_
North American Aviation is considering increasing capacity by 50rr through expenditures of $500,000 to 71.000,000 on the plant. Several other West Coast companies also are considering increasing facilities.
OILS—
Oil shares have recovered quickly and are close to their best levels for the recent move. There is somewhat greater confidence in the oil price structure While several leading interests are opposed to a crude oil price advance at this time, the industry should be able to do comparatively well if there is closer adherence to existing price levels and if the petroleum price structure is stabilized for a time.
Oil company earnings are still running con-
of sellers since
its recent high on the part of
UNITED FRUIT—
United Fruit’s reaction from has attracted renewed interest	_ r _
individuals who had little opportunity to purchase the stock earlier in the general market advance. It is assumed that United Fruit, with
its extensive fleet of ships, will be a major'bene-ficiary from increased business with South America. The company should benefit from increased ocean freight rates and increased tonnage.
A better turn on its banana and sugar cane, which are grown in Central and South America, also should be experienced. It is noted that sugar prices have held up quite well through, the recent period of reaction in commoditymarkets.	• ■	.
CARLOADINGS—	.
Some of the individual carloadings returns which are now appearing are making an exceptionally good showing. The traffic showing has been obscured recently by holiday considerations but on a daily basis the tonnage handled has continued unusually strong. The daily average loadings for the current month have been well above earlier months this year. This is considered a particularly good sign for it shows that distribution of goods has been advancing along with production, indicating that consumers are taking much of the merchandise they have been ordering recently and are not accumulating inventories on shelves.
C.1NADIAN ARBITRAGE RESTRICTIONS—
Effect of the prohibition of arbitrage under the exchange control m Canada has been to place trading in interlisted stocks on a straight supply and demand basis. In some issues, such as International Nickel, the floating supply is doubtless pretty well tied up; Brokerage opinion m Canada is that arbitrage facilities would bring equalization in interlisted stocks.