Markets: Steel Debenture Issue Offered as Planned; Indicates ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 15, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Steel Debenture Issue Offered as Planned; Indicates Confidence
$75,000,000 Bonds Out Today iri Spite of Declines in Securities and Commodities
Odd Lots Bought on Balance
Registering confidence In investment demand in the face of falling security prices, I’. S. Steel Corp, and the underwriting syndicate headed by Morgan Stanley & Co. for its pro* potted $“5,000,000 debenture issue yesterday decided to go ahead with the offering today as planned.
The second day of sharp declines In securities yesterday found the Dow-Jones Industrial average off 9.36 points at the close, Liquidation being accelerated by a sharp break in wheat on news of the German capture of Sedan. This grain wm off the permissible 10 cents in a few minutes and other commodities went down with it. Rubber was a strong exception, closing higher on anxiety over supplies.
Meanwhile, odd-lot traders on the New York Stock Exchange have been cushioning decline in stocks to some extent, the SEC disclosed, in showing that these traders began buying on balance when the Lowlands invasion started prices downward.
Despite the war-created uncertainty prevalent in securities markets. United States Steel and an underwriting syndicate headed by Morgan Stanley & Co. are going ahead with the i&sue of $75,000,000 debentures, as planned for some time.
Apparently the company and its underwriters believe that confidence in investment securities has not been greatly damaged by falling prices in stocks and bonds the past two days.
The debentures are being offered today and indications are that they will meet a strong investment demand. It is understood that three large New York Insurance companies will be buyers along with other life companies outside New York City. There is also understood to have been good inquiry from the banks. The offering of $75,000,000 serial debentures was made by means of a prospectus.
The issue is due $2,500,000 semi-annually November 1. 1940, to May 1. 1955. The debentures are priced at 100 and the coupon rates vary with each maturity starting with 0.375'< for November 1, 1940, and increasing 0.125',; for each maturity until May 1, 1946, after w’hich the yield increases 0.05rr for each maturity, reaching 2.65% for the May. 1955, debentures. Debentures Redeemable
The debentures are redeemable at any time Flease turn to page 6, column £
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
at the option of the corporation as a whole or any one or more senes as a whole, on any interest date on 30 days notice or on any other day on 60 days notice at 100 plus 8/100 of the principal amount for each six months or fraction thereof from the date fixed for redemption to the interest payment date next preceding the date of maturity.
Of the 875,000.000 which will be realized from the sale of the debentures. ~ $74,062,500 will go to the company. Underwriting discounts or commissions, will account for the remaining $937,500.
Proceeds of the offering, together with cash on band, will be used to redeem on or before July 15 at 103 the outstanding $95,140,000 principal amount of the corporation’s 10-year 3^% debentures due June 1, 1948.
Other Underwriter*
Associated with Morgan Stanley in the underwriting are. Almstedt Bros.; Bacon, Whipple A Co ; Baker. Watts & Co.; BancOhio Securities Co.; A. G. Becker A Co.. Inc.; Biddle, Whelen & Co ; Blair A Co.. Inc.; Blair, Bonner & Co.; Blyth & Co. Inc.; Boettcher & Co.; Bonbnght & Co., Inc.; Bosworth. Chanute, Loughndge & Co.; Alex. Brown A Sons; Burr Gannett & Co ; Wm. Cavalier & Co.; Central Republic Co ; E. W. Clark & Co.; Clark. Dodge A Co., Coffin & Burr. Inc.; Paul H. Davis A Co.; R. L. Day & Co.; Dick & Merle-Smith; Dillon, Read & Co ; Dominick & Dominick; Drexel & Co ; Eastman, Dillon & Co.; Elkins, Morris & Co.; Emanuel & Co.; Equitable Secu-i ities Corp.; Estabrook A Co.; Ferns & Hard-grove; First Boston Corp.; First of Michigan Corp . Robert Garrett & Sons; Glore. Forgan A Co.; Goldman, Sachs & Co ; Graham. Parsons & Co.; Green. Ellis & Anderson; Hallgartcn & Co.; Harriman Ripley & Co.. Inc , Harns, Hall & Co.. Inc.; Hawley, Huller & Co.; Hayden, Miller & Co.; Hayden. Stone & Co . Hemphill. Noyes & Co ; J. J. B. Hilliard A Son; Hornblower & Weeks; W E Hutton & Co ; Illinois Co. of Chicago; Jackson & Curtis; Kalman & Co ; Kean, Taylor Co . Kidder. Peabody & Co , Kuhn. Loeb & Co , Ladcnburg. Thalman & Co ; Laird, Bissell & Meads.
Also W. W. Lanahan At Co ; W. C. Langley & Co.; Lazard Freres & Co ; Lee Higginson Corp ; Lehman Bros. Adolph Lewisohn A Sons. W. L Lyons & Co ; Mackubin. Legg & Co.; Laurence M. Marks & Co.; McDonatd-Coolidge & Co.; Mellon Securities Corp ; Merrill Lynch,
E.	A. PiS^ce & Cassatt; Merrill, Turbcn & Co ; Mitchum, Tully & Co.; Moore. Leonard & Lynch.
F.	S Moseley & Co.; G M -P. Murphy & Co.; W. H Newbold’s Son A Co ; Newton. Abbe & Co ; Paine, Webber & Co ; Arthur Perry & Co , Inc.: R. W. Pre^spnch & Co : Reinholdt & Gardner: Riter & Co.: E H Rollins & Sons Inc, L. F Rothschild & Co.; Salomon Bros & Hutzler; Schoellkopf. Huttor. A Pomeroy, Inc.; Schroder Rockefeller & Co., Inc ; Shwabacher & Co ; Scott & Stringfellow; Shields & Co.; Singer. Deane A Scnbner; Smith Barney & Co.; Smith. Moore & Co ; William R. Staats Co ; Starkweather & Co; Stem Bros & Boyce.; Stern Brothers A Co.; Stern. Wampler & Co.. Inc., Stone & Webster and Blodget. Inc . Stroud A Co., Inc.; Swiss American Corp ; Spencer Trask & Co.; Tucker, Anthony & Co.; Union Securities Corp ; G H. Walker & Co.: Watling. Lerchen & Co ; Weeden & Co.; Wells-Dickey Co ; Wertheim & Co.; White, Weld & Co.. Whiting. Weeks & Stubbs, Inc.; Wisconsin Co ; Dean Witter & Co., anta Yamall & Cc.
JZnrZ :cts Decline
Extreme weakness in wheat shortly after one o’clock yesterday touched off declines in ether commodities’ and brought heavy Reihng. particularly from the west, in stocks during the last hour.
Previously the stock market had shown some signs of steadying around mid-day on smaller volume, but the downturn was accelerated by the decline in wheat.
Wheat started to break very rapidly shortly* after capture of Sedan by the German army became known at one o'clock. By 1:25 all months weic off the permissible limit of 10 cents in the Chicago market.
The Dow-Jones industrial averages, which were off 3 60 to 134.03 at one o'clock and were off 4.81 to 132.82 at two o’clock, thereafter dropped rapidly to 128 27 for a net loss on the day of 9 36 points Volume picked up sharply at the close after dropping from 810.000 in the first hour to 290,000 shares between ioon and one o'clock.
Better Crop Reports
Contributing factors to the break in wheat included improved crop reports from the southwest and northwest, a tendency to revise crop estimates upward, uncovering of stop loss orders, and taking of profits to margin stocks Other grains also showed heavy declines on the day, rye closing down the limit of 10 cents, corn dropping from 4% to 5% cents, and oats losing 3 to 3% cents. Soy beans were off their limit of 8 cents and lard was off 80 to 85 points.
Rubber was an exception to the general weakness in commodities, closing up 35 to 94 points after showing gains of as much as a cent at one time, as Dutch offerings in the middle east were withdrawn and anxiety increased over availability of shipping facilities.
Commodity Indice*
General effect of the decline is shown by the Dow-Jones index of commodity futures which dropped 3.02 points to close at 58.78. This brought the index down almost to the April 8 level of 58.65 before the rise which - followed invasion of Norway. Moody’s spot commodity price index closed at 161.1, off 4.7 points to about the April 16 level of 161.0.
Fears in Washington that the speculative cast of current markets might be accentuated by illegal trading resulted yesterday in a decision by the Commodity Exchange Administration to scrutinize closely the records of commodity trading during the midden decline.
The decline in wheat was by all odds the most spectacular of the day among commodities. At 12:52 May wheat in Chicago was off 2% cents. Eight minutes later capture of Sedan was announced and by 1:03 May wheat was oft 3%; by 1:09 it was off 4Vs cents; by 1:12 the decline amounted to 5 cents; four minutes later it was off 6% cents; and another nine minutes carried it down the permissible limit of 10 cents.
Yesterday’s break in wheat plus declines of around 3 cents Monday was the sharpest since the Crawford break of 1933 when wheat dropped 25 cents in two days. Shortly thereafter permissible limits of Accents on any one day’s trading were imposed. These were later broadened to 8 cents for the spot month and* after the war started last September this was widened to 10 cents.
Export Outlets
The break in wheat along with other agricultural commodities may be accounted for in part by the evident elimination of Holland and Belgium as export outlets for American agrricutural products.' The Department of Agriculture has
estimated that in 1989 these two countries accounted for about 10% of our total agricultural exports, sales to Belgium amounting to approximately $27,000,000 and to the Netherlands. $39,000,000. They were respectively the sixth and the fourth most important outlets for United States agricultural exports.
Last year United States exports to the Netherlands and Belgium amounted to 32% of wheat sales abroad. 9% of flue-cured tobacco, 18% of western fire-cured tobacco, 18% of fresh apples. 17% of prunes, 19% of raisins, 53% of soybeans, 71% of oil cake and oilcake meal, and 25% of corn.
Since outbreak of the war these countries have taken an even larger proportion of our agricultural exports. From September, 1939, through March, 1940, they took 45% of United States exports of wheat and 60% of soybean exports.
Curtailment of our wheat export possibilities came at a time when government figures indicated a larger crop and carryover than was earlier anticipated. The 1940 crop is currently estimated at 675.000.000 bushels which with carryover of 274.000,000 bushels would make a total supply of 349,000,000 bushels. Deduction of domestic requirements of 692.000.000 bushels leaves an exportable surplus of 257,000,000 bushels.
Import commodities with the exception nt rubber and minor agricultural commodities failed to reflect fully the decline in wheat yesterday although some weakness was apparent. Hides closed 14 to 23 points lower, tin was oft 125 to 200 points, coffee declined 4 to 9 points, and sugar was 4 ^o 8 points lower. Copper futures were down moderately, the very distant months declining 11 to 14 points while the nearby months were off 5 to 8 points. Lead buying was in quite good volume although on a smaller scale than during the past few days Pncc was unchanged.
Stock Market Trading
WASHINGTON—Odd-lot traders on the New York Stock Exchange began buying stocks on balance as soon as the German invasion of Belgium and Holland sent prices sliding down and continued their buying at least through Monday
SEC figures disclosed this fact, showing that to some degree the recent price decline in stocks has been cushioned by odd-lot customers who theoretically are the small investors and speculators.
Meanwhile, officials, speaking unofficially, continue to express mild surprise at the price declines, particularly in stocks on which earnings apparently will be good regardless of war developments Heretofore pncc declines of the magnitude of the last two days have attracted investment buying because of the enhanced yields on stocks, it was pointed out.
Officials, however, displayed no inclination to interfere with the stock market although they have been watching it closely.
The break in stock prices was called to President Roosevelt’s attention at his press conference by a reporter who asked him whether he had any information to indicate that the break was due to selling activities from abroad. The President, appearing not to have given much attention to the situation, replied that there was no such information that he knew of, adding that the questioner would have to ask the Treasury or Fede'ral Reserve Board
The only factor m the current market which has been measured statistically thus far is the trading of the odd-lotters on which the SEC publishes daily figures. These reports show that odd-lot customers, whose purchases and sales have averaged about 28 shares parn, traded against the market during at least the first three days of the current decline. They continued to buy on balance on Monday when pncea broke their previous lows and, according to the Dow theory, gave a bearish signal.
Pnor to the break in stock prices May 3 0. coincident with the news of the German invasion of Belgium and Holland, odd-lotters had been selling stocks on balance for about 10 days as prices inched up fractional^. On May 10, when the Dow-Jones average for 65 stocks dropped 1 42 points odd-lot traders switched over to the buying side of the market- Buying 247.330 shares and selling 220.869 shares, they added 26,461 shares net to their holdings on that day.
This was the largest net purchase total to be recorded for the odd-lotters during the current decline, and ■ their net buying has shown a tendency to diminish sharply as prices continue to fall. On May 11 their net buying aggregated only 8.056 shares and on Monday, despite the fact that gross purchases jumped to 345,818 shares, net buying fell to about 4,000 shares, gross sales amounting to 342.810 shares.
Short sales by odd-lot traders have increased m proportion to total odd-lot trading, accounting for 4,173 shares, or 1.2% of total odd-lot sales, last Monday. This is the normal ratio ot odd-lot short sales to total odd-lot sales.
Net buying by odd-lot traders when stock prices suddenly turn downward is normal, officials say. Odd-lotters show a tendency to buy at the beginning of price declines perhaps because many limited orders to buy at specific prices are touched off as the market turns downward.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.