Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 11, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Abreast of
BY ROBERT LAFFAX
‘The deterioration of the position of the Allies in the war and the confused outlook for world trade, brought a renewal of heaviness in stock dealings yesterday. T~he market was not so much shocked over the entrance of Italy into the war as it was discouraged over The progress of the Germans against the Allies, Both at sea and on land. Italy’s entrance into the conflict merely confirmed fears that the situation was not going so well for Great Britain and France.
There was a dull sag through the morning that carried prices down from 1 to 3 points. When the news that Italy had declared war on the Allies appeared around midday, it brought ho acceleration in offerings for it was accepted merely as another link in the chain of discouraging news. This failure of selling activities to pick up evidently was misconstrued by» aborts and by professional traders who started immediately bidding for stocks. There was a recovery in prices that in many instances more than overcame the morning losses. ~ ‘	’
move soon faded out and prices began dull drift downward again, and some lost all their gains while the majority tained themselves somewhat above the worst levels.
The market performance indicated there was no occasion for immediate alarm, particularly in view of the fact that the break in prices of the past month	'	’ "
market almost immune to But at the same time there enthusiasm and the short found that out.
Aircraft issues continued holders of these issues began about the duration of the war. that our defense program will large orders, quite apart from the Allies continue as large
But this their issues main-dav’s
that
had rendered the severe reactions, was no cause for run traders soon
under pressure as to have doubts It is expected result in some whether or not • buyers.
But against that there is the certainty that the domestic defense program will be financed in a strong measure out of taxes and these taxes will fall fairly heavily on aircraft companies. The Dow-Jones industrial average lost more than S1.? points to a new closing low for the move. Rails dropped a point but were not in new low ground.
the Market
its war. A Germany or mote trade might be in bartering system more currently.
a Europe, free to proa position to make its attractive than it is
CANADIAN SECT7RITIES—
The question of whether high grade Canadian securities in terms of American money are out of line with American issues of like calibre is something that has provoked occasions; thought in the financial district. In approximately a year the yield on the better types of Canadian bonds payable in American funds nar-advanced from a little over 3','c to 7r> and is now approximately twice as large as the yield on better grade of American corporate issues. Before the war Canadian issues were yielding only a little more than American issues.
Of course, the Canadian economy, being involved in war and subject to exchange control, has been subjected to a general marking down in x’alue, viewed from the neutral eyes of Americans. It is feared that the war effort may drain the Canadian economy, cause an acute shortage of American exchange and result in further depreciation of Canadian currency in terms of American dollars. Thus, an American investor would be faced with exchange losses even though Canadian securities Canada.
Accurate estimates of the Canadian balance of payments United States
firm of Mills. Spense & Co.. Ltd.—which admits it has an axe to grind—believes the spread between the yields available to American investors from their own gilt edged obligations ana from top grade Canadian issues is too wide. The firm estimates that Canada, left to its own resources and without considering credits from surplus elsewhere, and without new restrictions or prohibitions, could expect an exchange deficiency in U. S. currency of $100 to $150 millions over the course of the year. A good deal of this deficiency, it is stated, could be taken up through further restrictive measures within the Canadian economy, involving no sale of Canadian goiC reserves or holdings of U. S. securities. It is suggested that Canada occupies a position close to that of the United States and that the tics can be expected to become tightened. Under the circumstances Canada, and Canadian securities. it is suggested, hardly should sell at a substantial discount.
held up within
prospects ^or vis a vis the are hard to arrive at but the
reas currently without structural bookings ror domestic public works. The overall operations of the steel industry thia week started at 84.6Gr. a gain of 4.3 points over the preceding week. These operations have not succeeded in lifting steel shares because sentiment is rather low as a consequence of the developments in Europe. Many investors or potential investors evidently are treating current steel orders from the Allies as temporary. Our own defense program, on the other hand, can be expected ultimately to bolster the steel business. The question in everyone’s mind concerns how soon these defense needs will materialize.
SOUTH AMERICAN TRADE—	I
Maintenance of a good market for American ; machine tools in South America depends to a : large extent upon whether or not Europe con- i tinues at war, according to persons who have studied conditions in that field. A Europe at war hardly can afford to devote any considerable amount of attention to developing a market for machine tools in South America, but a Europe at peace would find itself with a good deal of manufacturing capacity and an urgent need for food supplies. Those food supplies could be purchased in South America and in exchange machine tools and industrial equipment could be offered. The fact that the equipment might not be as good as ours would be no handicap because South America needs relatively simple and inexpensive equipment.
The United States has been making progress since the war started in increasing machinery exports to South America, but this is due partly to the fact that foreign competition has not been so severe recently as formerly. The matter of establishing these gains on a permanent basis, however, is one of working out a system for absorbing more South American products into the American economy. It has to be either that or we must extend credit to those countries on an increasing scale for purchasing power there is not very high. The United States has a decided edge in South America if it can ship cheap equipment. The German barter system has not been to the liking of countries in South America that have had some experience with that system, according to these reports, but that is due to the fact that Germany has been under the strain of conducting
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
STRUCTURAL STEEL—
The recent improvement in steel operations has proceeded without encouragement from the structural end of the business. The decline m public works operations in this country over the past year apparently has affected structural : bookings. The American Institute of Steel Con' struction figures on bookings recently dropped down to the low point reached in 1938 and late 1937, after cancelling the gains scored ia late 1938 and early 1939. Shipments of fabricated structural steel, on the other hand, have held up better than bookings but that trend cannox last for long unless sustained upturn in new orders develops.
On the whole, steel activity is making prog-