Abreast of the Market: Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 8, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Abreast of
the Market
BY ROBERT
Laffan
Wall Street was still a bit dazed by tbe roll of events and yesterday’s sharp uprush in prices hardly came under the heading of a well-anticipated event. At any rate, those who may have expected eventual resumption of the recovery’ movement hardly were prepared for the wild demonstration that followed. The upturn carried the Dow-Jones industrial and rail averages through resistance lev els that had stopped all previous advances in the past tyvo month**. The industrials finished at 137.75. for a gain of 6 77 points. Rails were up 1.07 at 29.94. Only the utilities among the major groups lagged They finished up 0 61 points, but well under pre-election peaks. The volume of trading
jjing it up and many are frankly surprised at the exceptional vigor with which tbe market has > snapped out of its rut. a minority in the Street has clung consistently to previous beliefs that the market trend after election usually proceeds along tbe lines established prior to Election Day. That is. in'every election since the turn of the century where strength was in evidence before Election Day. strength has reasserted itself soon after the elections. The 1912 situation was somewhat different inasmuch as the market was weak during the Wilson-Roosevelt campaign. There was a rally following that election but it soon gave way to weakness. In 1920 the market weakened after Election Day but the market was weak prior to the elections then.
In the current instance, the steel and heavy industry shares were strong prior to Election Day and they likewise have developed excep-
mounted to 2,080.000 shares and the advance ' was the most spectacular of the year.	,
Vigorous buying got under way about the, time that Secretary Morgenthau announced plans to recommend a boost in the debt limit and abolition, henceforth, of tax exempt securities. Both steps, it may be said, have been rather, clearly foreshadowed. but the official statement ’ by the Secretary of the Treasury seemed to < bring home to a rather confused financial community the fact that enormous deficit spend-' ing is still exerting a powerful influence on the business situation. New tax revenue will_____________ ..
have to be raised but even then, as Mr. Mor- ( tional strength now that the elections are over, genthau stated, the defense program cannot be Wednesday’s weakness in the entire market nat-pl&ced on a pay-as-you-go basis and large scale urally raised some doubts about continuation of borrowing is necessary.	| the pre-election market pattern, but the shares
U. S. Steel common developed great activity j that have been the leaders on the recovery from and strength following that statement. The « the May break have again re-asserted their stock continued to forge ahead to close at 75, , leadership.	____
< the best level of the day and a rise of nearly ' 8 points. Motors, aircraft, coppers and miscellaneous industrials participated in the upswing.
' The tape fell behind floor transactions in the afternoon as the advance proceeded.
The bullish movement in stocks had its t counter-part in commodities which staged a I sensational advance. Bonds of all descriptions 1 also took part in the upturn. Government and ! municipal issues moved ahead ’ to new’ record highs and the speculative corporate bonds were . bid up-
What many traders are wondering now is whether the strength in heavy industry shares will pull up some of the stocks that hay’e been lagging in recent months, or whether the steels and heavy industrials are engaging in a blowoff” that will climax the summer-fall phase or advance. On this point there is much difference of opinion in the Street.
DEBT LIMIT BOOST—	.
Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau s statement that the debt limit would have to be increased by $15,000 000.000 to $20,000,000,000 or to 560.000.000.000 or 565.000.000.000. ap--	-	aggressive
POST-ELECTION PATTERN—	-
Though Wall Street’s emotions may be trip- peared to be the signal for more
buying of common stocks Secretary Morgenthau said the Treasury would recommend to Congress elimination of tax exemption on future issues. but that would not affect issues already sold that are tax exempt.
There should have been no great surprise In the announcement that the debt limit was to be raised for the defense appropriation made this prospect obvious. The Administration decision to seek to eliminate the tax exemption feature on new government issues may have been reached a little sooner than some Wall Streeters had anticipated However, that toe is a step that has been developing a long time Both Republican and Democratic administrations have been In favor ?»f such a step but active support of the move has lagged. Johi W. Hanes recommended it when he was serving as Undersecretary of the Treasury early m 1939
Some financial people think new money will be induced to go to other investment channels if tho offering of new tax exempt government and local issues is removed U. S. issues naturally will have at a somewhat lower price without the exemption feature Thus, the government gain income by taxing these bonds but be forced to accept lo-ss for the now Where it will gain is m the income to rived from local government issues the holders r>: comfort is in recognition of the fact of the cost of government is to go on shoulders as well as on their own equal.zing to some extent the cost o: ment.
IS
However, new o be marketed thout the tax wri it will issues be do-Whexc corporate shares may derive some '	’ .hat part
othc: thereby govern-
CONSTRX’CTION—
On one point there has been fail ly agreement in the financial district. 1‘ situation xs well reinforced with orders and therefore it should remain vigoious for some time to come. The differences of view chiefly have revolved around how the stock market should value a business recovery that m so mans* respects is based upon a poor foundation Fiscal policies that, despite increasing taxation, constantly arc increasing governmental deficits, and war orders from Great Britain that constantly are weakening that country's fiscal strength naturally must be viewed with a certain measure of reserve and suspicion.
On the other hand, no one can question that a material business expansion is under way For one who is not concerned with the nature oi the upturn, the upturn may be regarded as extremely impressive. Engineering construction awards so far this year and up to >CoveiTiber » are running 26*V over the corresponding period a year ago. with an aggregate volume ot 53.-2S5.460.000. according to the Engineering Nows-Record estimates. Last week’s awards were well under the preceding week but this was due . to the Election Day holiday They were substan; tiallv ahead of the like week a xear ago. Public and federal spending in the latest week account for the bulk of the gam over the like week a year ago, but there was also an increase in private awards, or to 522.643.000 against S20 -; 476.000
' Defense spending has made a considerable . contribution to the gain in construction awards j Moreover, additional defense work is scheduled ■ to be released and the immediate problem is ' whether or not the Administration can permit i civilian needs to draw upon industrial capacity , with
J Some likely ’ from
•eneral the business i unfinished
the freedom they have been enjoying interference with normal business appears if the demand for industrial equipment all sides continues to expand.
THEORY—
j
I
t
DOW___________
The exact significance of yesterday s strength in the stock market is rather bkely to be debatable. considered from a Dow theory standpoint. There is no question but that emergence on the upside from a trading range that has existed for two months is bullish in its (Please turn to naae thirteen)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Abreast of the Market
Continued from Page Fifteen	•>
trading implications. It shows that whatever obstructed progress previously has now been removed as a deterring factor. One would not expect a market that has emerged from this range to terminate its rise in a day or a week and to return to that trading range immediately- For a moderate spell, at least, green lights have appeared where before they weie red.
There remains the question of whether yesterday’s advance should be characterized as important enough to stamp the whole movement of recent months as of major significance, according to the Dow theory. Previous to yesterday's advance practically all Dow theory interpreters agreed that the upturn from the May lows was secondary in character, and that the major trend was down. It was likewise assumed that it would clarify the picture considerably if the market were to lose about a third of the advance since May and therx proceed to new high ground, thus signalling rather clearly a bullish major pattern, resembling closely other Dow theory bull market patterns.
Some Dow theory interpreters will regard the sidewise movement in the averages of recent months as a formation that possibly took the place of a reaction, and will regard the major trend as up. This possibility must be considered. Yet the possibility also must be considered that just as in the fall of 1938, following Munich, the market has merely rebounded to round out an advance that was in progress previously, and that was interrupted temporarily. The latter of the two possibilities has the greater appearance of plausibility. However, it is far from a certainty that the Dow theorist is dealing with at the moment.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.