Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 7, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
HOW THEY STAN
	Since	Additions
Increaaed Earnings:	November 1	yesterday
Industrials 			 44	12
Rails 			 2	1
Utilities 			 22	6
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 			 28	11
Rails 			 3	
Utilities 			 6	2
Stock Ex-
BY ROBERT
Goxcrn-
LA.FTAN
New record highs in United States ment bonds, strength in gold mining i**ues and rather general weakness in common shares occurred in xesterdax’s trading. 'The share market was down at the opening, with losses ranging front fractions to more than a point in the representative trading favorite*. There were some fairlv sizable blocks in tne initial acai-ings but liquidation did not immediatclj pick up momentum. Instead, leading industrials soon encountered a buying wave that earned pnccs above the opening levels and up to levels that in some cases exceeded Monday’s closing level.
That erratic advance failed to occur over a broad front, however, and it failed to hold. New selling during the noon hour soon carried down the leaders to lower levels and liquidation picked up until pivotal common shares had given up 1 to more than 5 points. Westinghouse Electric lost 4 points and du Pont S’*.
Among the poorest performers were the public utilities. Some of the low priced issues that had encountered concentrated buying in recent weeks gave up substantial ground percentagewise. The Dow-Jones industrial average lost 3 23 points rails 0 49 points and utilities
I.	77 points. Volume of trading amounted to
J.	210,000 shares.
Government bonds gained as much as a half point m numerous issues and the gains carried them to record highs. Evidently the election result was interpreted as an indication that super-easy money would be maintained for some time to come. Strength in Dome Mines. Lake Shore and Homestake Mining occurred while industrial shares were easing.
The stock market closed a shade above the worst levels of the day. but not sufficiently so to make a great deal of difference in the final results. Commodity markets closed moderately easier in terms of the Dow-Jones commodities future* index.
FOREIGN MARKET OPERATIONS—
There is still a trickle of foreign selling in the stock market. Bankers who have been keeping a close watch on this situation report that selling for Swiss account during the past several trading days has tended to lessen, but that there has been net filing of securities here from the Far East in larger than amounts.
ordmary
TRIFLE TOP—
Some traders were bearish for term strictly on technical factors, that the Dow-Jones industrial
the near The fact average had
York highs and five year 1940.
• • •
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS— Wednesday, on the New change, four .stocks made new
stocks made new lows for the New Highs—
Steel
LetM*b Fort O.
New Lows— Indpls FAX. •
Munaanta
Pitta For**. . So R> MAO
separate occasions in the
come to rest in the vicinity of 135 on three ________	__ past two months furnished an indication to them that the recovery from the May break was running into more decided opposition
Despite the efforts of the steel shares to lead the market toward higher levels the best the industrials severe able to do prior to Election Day was to edge up to 135.21. which hardly could be termed decisive penetration of the supply points encountered on two previous occasions m recent months. Rails had failed by one cent to equal their October 2 high. Recognition of the fact that the steel issues were carrying the main burden of the rise, and that despite the uptrend in that group the averages as a whole were not progressing, tended to make traders cautious Consequently. the rally that set in during the morning failed to attract much of a following from trading sources.
Those who have been observing the market action from the standpoint of the Dow theory have recognized that the upturn of recent months never assumed more than the characteristics of an intermediate recovery or rally from the May decline. Consequently they were more disposed than ever to regard the triple top formation as an invitation to remain cautious.
GOLD SHARES RISE—
The strength in gold shares was a sequel to a rise that had developed in those issues in Toronto the day before. Canadians have been following the election campaign in this country xxith unusual interest. Like everyone else, they have been wondering somewhat about the outlook for the price of gold and since that is a matter that is determined in a large measure by American policy they have taken a keen interest in this phase of our economic policy.
There was nothing in the campaign, of course, to suggest that the gold buying policy was endangered no matter who won. but in the background there lurked a suspicion that the Administration that fathered the gold buying policy would be more likely to maintain it than another administration.
Since American tounst expenditures in Canada have fallen off. the revenue derived from newly mined gold is of considerable importance to Canadians who are struggling with the problem of financing tbe war. Their output of newly mined gold has been increased and a large share of it is coming to the United States. The production of gold this year is expected
Woodward tr.
Cnloe Premier
to reach about $220,000,000 in Canadian money.
STREET VIEWS—
Brokers were rather mixed in their views concerning the market outlook. Orvis Bros. &. Co. sent the following wire to its clients: “After the chill of disappointment wears off, the security markets should resume their up-wawi trend. .	.	. Policies for the next four
years were set months ago with the passage of huge defense appropriations and the conscription act. The effect upon business cannot help but be stimulating soon.” E. F. Hutton said: “The business news is expected to continue favorable for several months, but it is difficult to see how it can improve measurably from this point forward.’’
While there is fairly general agreement about the business situation, brokers differ in regard to the psychological background. Among the matters that will be watched closely are the political appointments to cabinet positions and the course of foreign affairs. These, it is anticipated, will help to form the psychological background.
UTILITIES—
Public utility shares were particularly vulnerable yesterday, and they failed to participate in the brief trading rally that was led by industrials during the first hour. The rather poor technical position of the utilities, together with the earnings background, operated against even a bnef rally Over the twelve months ended September 30. utility net income in the aggregate increased little, despite the fact that gross revenues gained by about
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.