Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 13, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Market Diary
Stetareo:
C«ff«<e. Bto. Jwljr..........
Com. Jab...................-
Cottos. J«iy ................
HMtv. September.............
Oaf. Softy ..................
Rato*r. July	. . . •
K1&. raw. No. 1. JvJy ... Murar. raw. X». 3. Jaty -Tlw. Standard, new. July . Wheat. Joly	.	...
Wool top*. July	.
We4Ma4«r	
1X0	1030
1*	
	
.0210	
3.?e i*	
SS.4%	•4.4%
11«4	10*10*4
&.oo	4.M
84	4-V<
—SB	ISClOVr 4-04
s n	4.44
«3X	40*4
•.r?	0.20
10.44	10.04
3314 22.30	
3.72»^	2.34
I M U.0A	IM
	
07.0	• 1.0
By Robert Laffan
The stock market yesterday exhibited more Striking evidence of rhe thinness of offerings, and of its capacity for rapidly changing its moods. The Dow-Jones industrial axerage pushed ahead for a rise of nearly five and one half points, fairly leaping out of the recent trading range. Rails were up 1.47 points and utilities 0.68 points.
The news background was much the same as it has been, but there were some strained efforts during the more excited phases of the advance yesterday to twist the background to Ct the market performance None of them sounded very convincing, and what appeared more logical was that the market was again demonstrating its thoroughly sold-out position. The market’s underlying position has been tested several times since the Allies suffered their setbacks in Flanders, but each test has failed to bring sustaind or important selling. Italy’s entrance into the war was a decisive test and the market indicated that it could absorb that news too with a fair amount of composure.
Thinness of offerings on the way up, in such issues as Norfolk & Western, American Telephone and du Font, was about in keeping with the thinness that was experienced on the way down. Somewhat belatedly, perhaps, the market has capitalized on its technical strength and whether it can continue to do so. and to what extent it may do so. will depend on longer term considerations. But for the present, the market has clearly shown that Italian intervention, and even the threat that Pans may be taken, are not factors of immediate consideration.
That all will be smooth sailing marketwise from here on is not anticipated in brokerage circles for it is realized that a market of this kind is subject to quick changes in mood. Commodities did not share in the upswing yesterday, but the bond market gave a good account of itself. Rail bonds were strong favorites.
PRODUCTION RISING--------
It is predicted in some quarters that the Federal Reserve industrial production index should shortly recover nearly all the ground
	Since	Addition*
Increased Earning*:	June 1	Yea terday
Industrials 	...	....	27	4
Rails			....	13	4
TTHHH^S			....	42	2
Decreaaed Earning*:		
Industrials 				.... 12	
Rails 		...-	9	1
Utilities 			 6	1
lost since the start of this year and that it may be back close to the 128 level at which it ended last year While that level may* not be reached immediately, at least it seems certain that the moderate upturn last month will be extended sharply this month and possibly next, for the sharp gain in steel operations will have a substantial bearing on the figures. Production dwindled from 128 in December of last year to 119 in January. 109 in February, 103 in March, 102 in April Production gained, on the basis of preliminary figures, to 105 in May
Just how well the stock market will rise with production figures is a matter that is now puzzling the financial district. That depends in a large measure on the nature of the industrial rise, as well as on estimates as to its durability. There is no doubt that there is n strong measure of urgent Allied buying currently supporting production, for France has been losing some of her important industrial areas and that, plus the fact that the British appear to be less dilatory about making commitments here, is a factor in some of the present strength.
Another factor is the belief of American industrialists that the domestic defense program is going to get started without delay That together with the Allied purchases has encouraged an Inventory buying movement. Unless the Allies can establish their battle lines, there may not be much confidence in the permanence of their buying here, but our defense program remains in the background and it probably would be increased in scope should the Allies lose the war.
• • •
COPPER—
One of the industries that should be benefited if the Allies manage to maintain a war front in France is the copper industry. Shelling and bombing is moving at an unrestricted pace on the battlefront One dispatch yesterday said the British Royal Air Force dropped bombs on the attacking Germans at the rate of TOO a
minute in one recent raid. The whole tempo of shelling and bombing is such that replacements of ammunition are required on a vast scale.
Great Britain has been more disposed, Ln view of recent developments, to depend upon United States supplies of copper. The Belgium refining capacity has been lost to the Germans, and its trade route from Africa producers is exposed to possible Italian submarine and air attacks. Under the circumstances, more buying of copper here and more buying of munitions here is developing. The copper export figures themselves will not tell the whole story, for much copper will pass out of this country in the form of finished munitions.
The copper statistics for May showed a small increase in stocks. Consumption and exports increased during the month. The figures contained no real surprises, except possibly the revelation that some refiners were more active in drawing on crude stocks than may have been anticipated.
• • •
DEMAND FOR TAXES—
One of the by-products of the present awakened attitude toward national politics is that there apparently is a demand for greater orthodoxy in financial matters. This is apparent in letters to Congress and in the discussions on the floor of the Senate and House Apparently the public is fearful of extraordinarily loose spending, unsupported by tax**s under the guise of another emergency. That apparently has been responsible for some measure of tax boosting already, which will be incorporated into the legislation for financing defense. Demands were made in the Senate yesterday that the Administration consider a thorough revision of the tax structure to make it more productive of revenue.
Whatever happens, it is certain that taxes will increase, measured by what the individual will have to pay. But the yield to the government can be immeasurably Increased or not. depending upon how wisely the tax burden Is distributed. A few wisely administered adjustments on capital gains, for instance, might be productive of greatly increased revenue. Heretofore. the Administration has not seen fit squarely to attack that problem, though all impartial and responsible tax experts have testified much good could be accomplished in that direction.
There is insufficient evidence at the moment to support the view that the tax structure itself will be revised, as suggested by Senators Byrd and Connally, both Democrats, yesterday But it is a matter that is of particular interest to investors for it cannot be denied that tax considerations are in a large measure responsible for the low valuation of earning power in the stock market.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.