Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 18, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
A wave of renewed liquidation yesterday Sent stock prices to their lowest levels in more than a year. The list opened steady with some issues showing gains, but as news of new German successes emphasized the serious situation which the Allied arms arc facing in France and Belgium, selling broke out on an increasing scale throughout the session, with the tape running as much as seven minutes late in the final trading.
axic atrcci, regarding the war news gloom
ily, paid no attention whatever to business developments, and even ignored the apparently inflationary implications of the national defense program.
With the fate of the list hinging upon war news, it was only natural that issues which have been benefiting from the conflict suffered severely in the downrush of prices. These included steels, airplanes, papers, and some special issues.
Selling of stocks was accompanied by pronounced weakness in all leading commodities, and bond prices also gave ground.
« « •
STEEL EXPORT ORDERS GAIN—
No one is willing to venture a guess as to just how great will be the impact upon the steel industry of the national defense program. That it will be substantial in the aggregate is not doubted but the effect may be . spread out over a lengthy period. In any dfcse, it will probably be some time before military and naval expenditures begin to reflect themselves in actual tonnage.
Meanwhile, the steel trade has been receiving unusually large export orders, particularly from England and France. This, with improvement in demand from domestic consumers, appears to justify the optimistic views in trade circles regarding the prospects for further steel ingot production rate increases in
the coming week*.
One result of the newly created situation in steel has been the stiffening of prices In the leading products. While concessions are still obtainable on some lines, notably galvanized sheets and reinforcing bars, they are not as large as heretofore. Meanwhile all the leading producers are quoting the regular market on the new domestic inquiries and they have been booking business at these quotations.
« • *
OIL EARNINGS OUTLOOK—
Because of dissimilar price movements throughout the country, profit returns of oil companies for the current quarter are likely to be mixed. Solely producing companies thus far this year have been able to make better showings because of some easing of production restrictions in leading states and the fact that prices have continued unchanged from a year ago. Integrated companies* results vary, dep^iding on geographical location. Those on the Vast coast with substantial stakes in the fuel oil business had the advantage, in the first quarter, of materially higher prices, as well as benefit from a slightly better price structure for gasoline as compared with other areas, and profits, in consequence, were considerably higher than in the initial quarter of 1939. Mid-continent companies showed some improvement while one Pacific coast company had an increase and the other a reduction in profits.
The second and third quarters are normally gasoline periods. The general price trend for the product has been lower, and it is likely that profits in this period will not be as good for the integrated companies as In the initial three months of this .year. Moreover, inven
tories of lubricating oil* are again accumulating at principal reAnery centers and prire* for these have been moving downward. Foreign demand since the beginning of war hostilities has been curtailed sharply, except for lubricating oils, and even with increased activity and a major extension of operations, the American oil companies are of the opinion that this country is not likely to be the recipient of any improved demand. Venezuela and the Dutch West Indies appear to be the beneficiaries of such business if it does develop.
• • •
TIN CAN COMPANIES—
Although the depression proof nature of the tin can business should stand it in good stead from a sale* point of view in the present crisis, doubts over complete continuance of supplies of tin raise another point. For as soon as tin supply dwindles and prices rise, competitive material* are certain to make inroads into the tin container field.
There are plastics, paper, glass, aluminum plate, nickel plate and other means of making containers which might supplant tin cans. Even if the established can companies were to make the revised type of package, there would be considerable expenditures needed for new equipment and machinery and a general period of readjustment.
Such a tin shortage may never occur, and Bolivia might be counted on to give us increased tonnages, but these possibilities do exist in the container field. Meanwhile, can sales and profits apparently continue above a I year ago.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.