Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 14, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Abreast of the Market
BY Robekt Laffan
The market composure of recent weeks was dissipated abruptly yesterday as the Dow-Jones industrial averages slumped 4.28 points, rails 0.84 points and utilities 0.60 points. The connection between the market action and the intensified fighting over Great Britain was more than casual. There is no doubt that financial people attach the greatest significance to the current struggle abroad.	'
The concern here appears to be’even greater than in London for British stock prices actually improved while ours weakened badly. Our decline was accompanied by a step-up in volume to 640,000 shares from recent levels that have been only about a third of that total.
Perhaps the relative composure m the London market reflects the fact that Great Britain is fully aware of what it faces. Here there is much confusion as to what our role is to be should the war go against Great Britain. The possibilities have been much discussed and the defense program is proceeding, but still American opinion seems to fluctuate between alternate hopes and fears and. worst of all. deep cross currents of doubt as to the policies we will pursue through this storm. The uncertainty rather than the facts at issue seems to dominate financial opinions, causing them to fluctuate wildly.
After the increased selling of the morning, volume tapered off somewhat. A survey of the damage before noon showed losses to be quite extensive and undoubtedly the very extent of the price declines caused potential sellers to hold off further offerings. Losses ranged from 2 to about ft points by midday. Some of the technical market students believe the market can afford to drop back moderately from recent highs without indicating anything particularly serious, but they are interested in seeing how the market behaves above the low points of last June.
• ■ •
FOREIGN LIQUIDATION SHIFTS—
While foreign liquidation is still of small proportions, it is noteworthy that the complexion of the selling has undergone a change recently. It was learned yesterday from banking circles that keep close watch on foreign operations that whereas last fall and winter, and until recently, such selling was largely in common stocks, now liquidation is in corporate bonds and, to a small extent, in government bonds.
To some extent this has been reflected in the Dow-Jones bond and stock averages. On Monday attention was called here to the fact that the Dow-Jones index of 40 bonds had reached the peak of its recovery movement In mid-July and had tapered off from there. Despite the fact that the stock averages edged forward slightly to new highs this month, the bond index remained depressed. Yesterday the index of 40 bonds declined 0.50 points to 87.58, selling well under the July lows and indicating that bonds have been meeting pressure during the past month.
largely because they have aomewhat less to fear, whatever form the excess profits tax revenue bill takes when it emerges in final legislative form. One of the rails that is deserving ot 8om* attention is Pennsylvania since it is selling substantially under its book value and has a relatively high rate of average earnings over recent years to grant its earnings relative exemption from a heavy drain through taxation.
Pennsylvania has paid a cash return to stockholders in every year since 1847. Its current earnings rate is substantially in excess or the 32.43 a share reported in 1939. In the depressed year of 1938 the balance for the common was equal to 84 cents a share; in 1937 net was $2.07 a share and in 1936 it was $2 94 a share. This year’s net from current appearances should approximate the 1936 level and may even do somewhat better. The road has an important stake in heavy industry and consequently it should share in any benefits deriving from the defense program.	*
• • •
MOUE POLICIES________
More evidence is appearing that the motion picture industry, or at least a substantial portion of it, will attempt to change the present policy of showing double features. A national survey made by Dr. George Gallup, at Samuel Goldwyn's request, has indicated that 57*> of the population is opposed to double feature bills. The impression in movie circles haw been that adult moviegoers are not in favor of the double bills but apparently some producers have not been convinced that the preponderance of opinion is strong enough to warrant a change. Apparently younger moviegoers like the present policy.
Leaders of the industry, such as Mr. Gold-wyn, contend that the quality of the films must suffer under the mass production methods demanded by double features and that the adult audience will be won away to other forms of entertainment. Profits, under those circumstances, would suffer even more than they have in recent years.
The issue will be carried to the radio next Saturday when Mr. Goldwyn and representatives of both shades of opinion will discuss the matter informally.
COPPER—
Though stocks of refined copper increased m July, consumption also tended higher and the deliveries of 71,226 tons were the highest since January when 91.428 tons were delivered. The market has not recovered the vitality of last fall and early winter, but there has been a definite upturn m deliveries from the slump witnessed in February of this year. How extensive this improvement may be depends upon the course of the war and the speed with which our defense program gets under way. The capitulation of France set back the recovery in copper buying but evidently the uptrend was resumed last month. At the moment the copper market is rather dull.
Refined stocks increased 16.237 tons last month, but blister stocks were down 11,472 tons during the month. Production continues in excess of deliveries but the gap, which was quite wide in June, has been narrowed noticeably. The price structure at the moment shows little change after the softness that developed about a week ago.
• • •
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD—
Some of the better grade rails seem to attract small and sporadic investment buying.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.