Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 12, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
pg. 15
Abreast of
the Market
By Robert Laffax
*The stock market continued Support in the neighborhood of recent lows and this evidence of continued technical strength in the face of disturbing news inspired more api nted buying vesterdax*. The Dow-Jones industrial average spurted 4.13 points on the day, rails were up 0.94 and utilities gained 0.59 points.
Prices were higher from the start of trading and in subsequent dealings the market kept edging forward to close at the best levels for the day. Many issues finished at new highs for the past few weeks.
Many traders, although perplexed at the rapid movement of outside events, continued to take their cue from the action of the market itself. The spread of warfare appears to be making a tremendous demand upon our facilities. The territory that the French is losing is a highly industrial area and it may mean that still further demands for equipment may be placed upon us. In the background. of course, there is the question of how well the French and British armies will be able to hold out against the odds they are facing, but the difficulties and adversities so far appear to have in no way diminished their determination to fight.
The commodity markets experienced a lift along with the securities markets. Rubber shot ahead sharply and hides were advanced Grains markets also closed higher.
Steel issues, chemicals and rails gave a good account of themselves in yesterday’s session. Aircrafts, coppers and motors also moved steadily higher.
After the close of vealed that the short sharply during May. panded their position,
covered extensively during the break past month.
to
encounter
the market it was re-intcrest had diminished The odd-lot shorts ex-but
the full-lot
shorts of the
IMPROVEMENT IN OILS—
The better performance of some of shares may be merely technical in character, after so severe a decline as they have experienced recently, but there are some hopes that the war is going to offer some fundamental assistance. With the Mediterranean bottled up, it Is expected that the Allies will have to buy some oil in Venezuela and the United States Oil companies here probably would ship some petroleum products to Canada for transshipment to the Allies by convoy, or some of it might go abroad direct from Gulf ports.
Creole, in which Standard Oil of New Jersey owns a 70% to 75% interest, would benefit from any demand placed in Venezuela, and so would Gulf Oil. Ohio Oil has a pipe line to Canada through which it could ship for Allied consumption. Probably all the oil companies on the eastern or southern seaboard would benefit to some extent. All this, of course, is predicated on how long the war lasts.
The war will serve the oil industry if it merely tends to stabilize or improve domestic prices. Followers of the oil industry have been somewhat concerned over the size of stocks of gasoline and have been afraid that the price structure might deteriorate this summer and , fall. The earnings results of leading oil com- ' panies thus far in 1940 appear quite impressive and if the profits level can be maintained, the oils would appear to be well situated.	t
the oil
i
i
MOTORS—	|
There has been continual reference to the size of stocks of new automobiles in dealers bands, which are unusually large. The reason . for this undoubtedly is to be found to some ex- . tent in concern over the labor situation which in recent years has plagued the automotive in- i dustry. The negotiations between General * Motors Corp, and UAW-CIO officials were narrowly saved from complete collapse, according | to yesterday’s dispatches from Detroit. The i corporation’s refusal to grant the general wage increase, and its offer instead to grant a 2J£% annual vacation pay allowance almost caused the labor unions to authorize a strike. The government conciliators, it was said, urged both sides to reconsider.
If there are any tie-ups in production at this time, they probably will affect sales and earnings less than under ordinary circumstances, due to the supply of new cars on hand. It is probable that in any event motor production ( schedules will be lowered sharply before long | in preparation for activities on	‘ '
later.
new models
• • •
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING— All the reports on residential tivjty fail to fit in with the rather „ showing of building company supply shares and many persons in the Street are wondering if these issues may not have become overdepressed. Leading firms supplying equipment for home construction are rounding out a particularly satisfactory first half. They have been cautious about predicting the volume of construction for the second half, but that period is drawing close upon them and it appears that they may make a favorable start towards a good second half, at the very least.
building* ac-poor market

DEFENSE—
One of the most reassuring factors in the current perplexing situation is the progress that Is being made by the National Defense Advisory Commission. More and more. Wall Street is coming to take a more constructive view of that situation, not merely because it means some business will be available for industry, but because of the way the commission is functioning. That is much more important from the standpoint of national security.
The better sentiment in that regard started with- the resignation of Mr. Stettinius from the U. S. Steel Corp. It was realized then that the sacrifice of a $100,000 position in private industry would not have been decided upon unless Mr. Stettinius felt the government was going to give him a real and lasting opportunity to perform genuine service. Since then the reports have drifted into Wall Street that the Adminis-
tration is giving industrialists real support ana encouragement in their efforts. The conferences between William S. Knudsen, also a member of the advisory commission, and Edsel Ford, and the latter’s statement that the Ford Motor Co. is prepared to start turning out planes on a mass production basis, just as soon as government orders are ready, all suggest that some real progress is being made.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.