Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFTAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 10, 1941;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 19
Abreast of the Market
Concern over the extent of the damage to" ' the American fleet at Hawaii, together with a full-fledged air raid warning, threw stock traders into a tunhoil of excitement Tuesday and produced the weakest and most active trading session of the year.
Under the circumstances it is not surprising that the market was not as composed as on the day before. The tape fell behind floor transactions—something that had not happened on Monday—and volume soared to 2,560,000 shares, well above the previous day’s two million share total. It was the largest trading day since the early summer of 1940 when fears Over German penetration beyond France’s Maginot Line produced active selling. The Dow-Jones industrial stock averages broke the 110.4 lows of May, 1940, by more than a point. Ralls were severely depressed and utilities were swept broadly into new low ground.
Restrictions on futures price changes for the day by the Commodity Exchange Administration kept the commodity markets relatively stable. However, unrestricted cotton swung in a wide range, turning a morning gain of $1 a bale into a final loss that ranged from $1.50 to $2 a bale. Grains, though somewhat uneasy, maintained themselves near the maximum price levels set for the day.
Revelation that the air raid warning was a dress rehearsal resulted In greater composure in the markets by the final hour. But this assurance came only after extensive damage had been done to the stock and bond markets. Some high-grade bonds were off as much as two points at the time. Leading stocks recovered 1 to 3 points from their earlier lows by " close.
-By Robert Laffan-
The case of Chilean nitrates also may be cited. This critical and indispensable war commodity, it has been pointed out by Bernard M. Baruch, World War Industries Board chief, “was being deliberately controlled against us and, by reason of apparently ideal circumstances for speculation, threatened to rise to any height. By a relatively simple use of plenary government war control ot foreign trade,” Mr. Baruch points out, “we handled the nitrate price situation quite as effectively as we controlled the domestic price of any commodity. I could cite similar cases of regulation of Import price through government control of foreign trade.”
the
Price Control. Even of Imported Commodities, Can Be Achieved -
That government price control can be made really effective is a matter that some Wall Street people have been inclined to doubt. Thio
Street people have been inclined to doubt. This doubt, however, does not rest upon the expertcnee of the World War for it was demonstrated then that when the government really was determined to influence and control prices it was able to do so.
This was true not merely of domestic commodities but also of imported items. There are still a great many opinions being- voiced that government action cannot be made effective in the case of articles which must be imported.
Ignored, in this connection, is what happened in the case of rubber prices under the War Industries Board through agreements with rubber producing countries. Notwithstanding tremendous demand and acute shipping shortages the price of rubber went down during 1917 from an index figure of 178 to one of about 128 where it remained until the Armistice.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
There was some difficulty in stabilizing tex* tile prices in the World War but this was due to the fact that the government attempted piecemeal price control in connection with that commodity and even that form of control was attempted too late to prevent those prices from getting out of line with other commodities.
This is the way some major commodities performed during the period of participation by the United States in the World War, according to testimony presented to the War Policies Commission by Col. Ayres:
Food .........................
Textiles .....................
Chemicals ....................
Leather ......................
Iron an<J steel ..............
Other metal products .........
Naturally there is a good deal between the World War situation and that which prevails today, not only as regards the different character of the present war but also as regards the prompt supervision of some prices this time, ‘	'
metals generally.
It is hardly to time will conform outlined above. J that when the government makes up its mind to exercise serious price control there is precedent for believing that it can be accomplished to a substantial degree. The failure of Great Britain and the United States to really effect price control during the past year has been due to a certain amount of laxity and political pressure. This too, was encountered in the last war but once a determined step in the direction of control was taken it was made effective.
6%
4%
such as copper, steel an 3
. be expected that prices this i in any degree to the pattern But there is some evidence
The current steps of O.P.A. Administrator Henderson to obtain a stronger price control bill from Congress will bear close watching by business interests as well as stock and commodity traders. For past failures to control by government itself cannot be achieved. The O.P.A. has be'en operating up to now with no real legal authority over prices and its efforts naturally have been handicapped.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.