Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN--
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 31, 1941;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Abreast of the Market
By Robert l.Ar fan—
Canada, undoubtedly were unified war effort against
all the appearances ot a
Buying operations on a more aggressive scale gained the ascendancy over tax selling yesterday and the stock market bounded forward from 1 to a half dozei. points in another active session involving 2,560,000 shares. Monday’s turnover of close to three million shares inspired the conviction in many market operators that the very worst of tax selling had been witnessed. Inasmuch as prices more than held their own ir. Monday’s session it was concluded that the line of least resistance had turned to the upside.
The exceptional vigor of the upswing started a search in some quarters for bullish underlying factors in the rise News from the Far East certainly was no better, although there were numerous rumors that the Allied forces, notably the United States, were about to launch more aggressive military operations against Japan. All of this conjecture seemed to be without much tangible confirmation. However, the recent conferences between President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill, followed by the latter’s visit to evidence of a more the Axis.
The market had	_.
typical technical setback from an oversold position, evidenced by the powerful and almost unopposed bolt of American Telephone to the 130 l*vel against last week’s low of a little above 115 That rise, and others somewhat similar that occurred In American Can, du Pont. Union Carbide. Wrstinghouse Electric and others that rallied 4 points or so. were made possible by a paucity cf offerings immediately above the market.
For weeks the character of the buying has been most impressive and it was evident that stocks that were being offered for tax purposes were being taken off the market by in* dividuals and institutions that have not been seen on the buying side in a long time. This type of buying, while incapable in itself of producing a rally, nevertheless was setting the stage for such a move as occurred yesterday With very little time left for 1941 tax sales to be completed in the normal way, commission house traders who have been building up credit balances in recent weeks, returned to the buying side during yesterday’s session Demand was extremely broad, embracing utilities as well as rails and industrials
The bond market was generally firmer. Commodities moved in a restricted price range and closed little changed on the day
War Tiebits and Credits
Becoming Merely Academic
An item of no small significance to some Wall Street people yesterday was the report, originating in Canada, that henceforth the war would ho waged without regard to finance, to borrowing or lending as between the major allied powers.
It has been obvious for some t»me that the scale of the war and the lend-leasing was devel
oping; to such proportions as to oversnaaow any ordinary commercial or lending arrangement. Nevertheless, the reports from Canada yesterday that that country was preparing to cancel its British war debt of $1.5 billions accumulated in the last two years provided tangible evidence that the money side of war transactions was being reduced to insignificance.
In the past two years Great Britain has been a substantial purchaser of Canadian materials. It financed these purchases by a transfer of $250 millions in gold and by payment of more than $500 millions in securities. About "$700 millions has represented largely credit supplied by Canada.
Great Britain currently is accumulating a deficit in its transactions with Canada. Part of this deficit is being assumed indirectly by the United States which is extending Canada lend-lease aid which has been estimated at from $200 millions to $300 millions.
It is logical that this round-about method of credits and debits begin to fall by the wayside now that the United States is a full-fledged belligerent. The common war objective was all that was needed to strip the round-abo^it borrowing and lending that has been indulged in thus far.
The heavier financial burdens that are falling on the United States now that it is a full-fledged belligerent reacts upon stock market sentiment in two ways There is the discomforting fact that taxation is going to be substantially increased. This has been apparent for some time and about all the investor can hope is that some of the forms of taxation that would prove drastically punishing to corporations. like the Treasury’s strictly invested capital tax proposal, will not be enacted. This proposal, eliminating the average earnings exemption, has been twice defeated and there are hopes that it may be defeated again.
As against the evidence that taxation must, whatever form it takes, become increasingly severe, there is the statement last week of Senator George of Georgia, chairman of the Senate finance committee, to be considered He pointed out that he would oppose any ’’wild schemes” of taxation and stated that the country would be lucky if it financed one-third ot the war cost from taxation, despite projected increases in taxes.
Thi> would suggest that two-thirds of the war cost will have to come from borrowing. Recently the United States has been borrowing only about 4O'< and taxing for about 60'^ of its outlays. This ratio, according to Senator George’s estimates, cannot be maintained and must in fact be reversed as spending increases
With spending outrunning revenues, despite additional taxing, and with more of the war cost coming from borrowing the background would develop more of an inflationary character than has been witnessed thus far. The familiar manifestation of inflation—commodity price advances—may be missing due to price controls but there would remain the stock market where some of the accumulating bank deposits might find an outlet.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.