Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 28, 1943;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Abreast of the Market
Stocks declined one to more than' three points yesterday with volume heavy on the decline. The industrial average closed at 138.75. lowest since May 18, when it closed at 138.05. Thus two months’ advance has been erased in two days. Since Saturday’s close the average has lost 5.24 points.
The averages had been moving steadily into new high ground, but the advance recently had been sluggish and the market Appeared tired There also had been a lot of buying in certain active railroad and industrial shares on expectation of a further advance before the end of July. A lot of Rolling yesterday camo from traders
It now remains to be seen how much further the market has to drop'before resistance is met. Inflationary influences are still at work hut technicians do not believe the market will make much of a stand this side of 135 for the industrial average. Volume was heavy on the decline and there was little trading on the feeble rallies, certainly not a bullish sign.
* • •
The decline in the stock market following the fall of Mussolini was in lire with previous action when the end of the war in Europe appeared nearer
Statistical departments nlrcadv have enumerated lists of peace stocks war stocks. | and transitional storks th*' latter including ’ issues which stand to benefit from a return
>to peace but which are doing a satisfactory war business. However, some of the switching from one group to another that is being done is likely to prove incorrect, particularly in the matter of timing.
The current market is discounting nn earlier than expected peace, in the opinion ot traders, and the selling of so-called "war” stocks and even '‘peace” stocks reflects tears ot what peace will mean to business. While peace stocks arc holding much better than the war issues, there are many timid traders who are turning some nf their securities into cash.
• * •
Reconversion to peacetime activities and the lime it will take are all-important factors in making purchases of equities at this time. It Is pretty clear that such industries as the automotive, carpets, heavy machinery, railroad equipment, refrigerators and sewing machines, to mention a few, will have reconversion problems that will take some months to solvo.
One leading broker commentator mentioned the following as having a major prob lem in reconversion: Aircraft, machine tools, munitions and shipbuilding.
On the other hand, the following industries would appear to have unimportant reconversion problems Air transport, baking, fertilizer, furniture gla*** jrwclrv leather and shoes, moat packing, milling, dry goods variety stoics tobarco, utilities soap natural gas. coal, petroleum, soft drinks, and paper manufacturing.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.