What's News--: Business and Finance World-Wide Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 10, 1946;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 1	.
What’s
News
Business and Finance
World-Wide
INDUSTRY MEMBERS of the Wage 1 Stabilization Board submitted their resignations yesterday. In a letter to President Truman, the two members, A. Colman Barrett and Earl N. Cannon, said it had been apparent to them, since the A.F.L. maritime wage case was decided three weeks ago, that pay controls are no longer feasible. They concluded by urging the President to lift all wage curbs. W. Willard Wirtz, chairman of the Board, said he did not know whether the industry members were speaking for themselves, or for industry as a whole. Mr. Truman is expected to act on their resignations today.
Meat shortages were discussed by top Administration advisers in a 23/2’ hour session which broke up last night without a statement. Unofficially, predictions were made of “emergency action’’ by President Truman shortly. One proposal considered at the meeting was a certificate plan, under which livestock owners who sold on the present market would be guaranteed the benefit of any future advances in cattle and hog prices.
Leading stocks broke to new low levels for the year yesterday. Selling converged particularly on the automobile and steel shares. Declines in the motor stocks gathered momentum after Ford announced it was following the example recently set by Chrysler Corp, in curtailing operations because of steel shortages. At the close, industrial shares in the Dow-Jones averages were in new low.-ground since mid-3945, closing nt 363.12, off 4.22 points. Rails were down 1.63 points and utilities 0.90. Volume rase to 2,020,000 shares, from 1,260,000 on Tuesday.
. Ford Motor Co. said it will be forced to close down nearly all its plants from tonight until Monday morning because of a shortage of rolled steel. Officials declared Ford’s own steel plant has been operating at capacity, but the company has been unable to buy enough additional steel from outside sources to meet its passenger car and truck output. General-Motors -.Corp...disclosed . that :its.:: passenger car production'last week increased t.o 25,189 units, from 23.284 the week before, despite continued shortages of materials and parts. •
Treasury Secretary Snyder told his press conference he contemplated no “immediate” change in Government financing or taxes. This means that the Treasury will for the present follow its policy of financing the Government debt mainly with low-interest rate, shortterm securities and that it will continue to oppose tax reductions in the 3.947 calendar year. Mr. Snyder said the Treasury will not attempt to set forth any long-range policy until it has a better idea what receipts are likely to be next year.	.
~ International controls over the allocation of natural rubber will be ' removed, effective January 3, 1947, the British Board of Trade announced. Member governments of the Combined Rubber Committee have agreed to end controls “in view of increased quantities of natural rubber becoming available for international allocation,” the Board said. The Committee will pass out of existence December 31.
Company Notes—
Arclicr-Danii'ls-Midland Co.—S. M. Archer, president, told the annual meeting the company is expending $5 million on an expansion program, which includes a linseed oil plant at Fredonia, Kan., and a new manufacturing plant at Mankato, Minn.	.
Electric Bond A Share Co.—Earnings in the last three months for 1916 will show a balance for the common stock for the first time since 1941, Curtis E. Calder, chairman, stated at the annual meeting.
Mid-Continent Petroleum — With volume running at record levels, net profits for the nine months ended September 30 were considerably above the $3.21 a share earned in the like 1945 period.
Sears, Roebuck A Co.—Sales in the fiscal year ending January 31, 1947, may reach $1,600 million, against $1,045 million in the preceding year. While part o"f the sales gain this year reflects higher prices, the major portion stems from the increased availability of consumer durable goods.
Markets—
Stocks—Volume 2,020.000 shares. Dow-Jones industrials 163.12, off 4.22; rails 44.69, off 1.63; utilities 33.20, off .90. London—Industrials 148.5, off 0.2; rails 65.3. up 0.2.
Bonds—-Volume $5,660,000. Dow-Jones 40 bonds 102.66, off .08; high grade rails 110.33, off .15; speculative rails 89.19, off .14; utilities 107.37, off .03; industrials 103.75, up .01.
Commodities—Dow-Jones futures index 125.95, off .48.	'
Earnings—
	—NX	Income—	Per Com. Bhr.	
fi mo*. .Iiilv 31;	1940	I94S	1940	1045
(■hiHwJ Hrmlmru . .	IS.001,	000 hSO.lS		hSi.oo
9 tnnu. Avr. Ill:				
Ea-OII.(> Corp. . .	.	WO.072	1.<71.400	2.0S	.1.09
« mo*, .lune				
Lockhrrd Alrrnift	.	<1424.502	1.510.421		1.4U
{♦	sept. ;;u.				
Trnn*. A Wllllitnt.	.	A7.MM	241.941	.50	1.79
Woortunrd Iron	.		dos.or.o	.tu	1.S0
Vrnr Jun* Sir				
Marrni	M'jo.io.:	1 .IJUII.	1.M	2.J7
d--N*t	Ii-	Hanrd mi	yie.M’nt ct.pitalizntion,		
(Today's Index on Page 2)
Russians Outvoted as Paris Parley Adopts Plan for U.N. to Run Trieste
THE PEACE CONFERENCE finished Us work on the treaty for Italy.
The East-West split of the 21-nation parley continued to the end over the issue of administering the Adriatic city of Trieste and the surrounding area. Over opposition from Russia and the Slavic states, delegates approved, 15 to 6, the Trieste compromises suggested by France and backed by the U. S. and Britain. The whole treaty now goes to the Big Four Council of Foreign Ministers for final approval.	■	•
As voted by the parley, Trieste get* taken out. of Italy and put into a "free zone." The U.N. Security Council will appoint a governor for the sone.
Italy loses to Yugoslavia about two-thirds i
.	<>	.. ._ •__-•___j
of the Istrian peninsula, adjoining Trieste. This treaty provision was favored by Russia but opposed by Yugoslavia and the other Slavic states, which wanted the Yugoslavs to get even more Italian territory.
Other treaty provisions, as accepted by the conference, would require Italy to pay $325 million in reparations. Russia, Greece and Yugoslavia each would get $100 million and Ethiopia $25 million. A Soviet move to give: Yugoslavia $200 million was rejected.
Soviet Foreign Minister Molotov, early in yesterday's balloting, was defeated in attempts to have a specific date set for the withdrawal of all British and American troops from the Trieste area.	....
After more than
ITALIAN WORKERS, fearing loss of their government relief jobs, rioted In Rome.
A mob of some • 25,000 marched on tho Viminale Palace, sent of the government, and clashed there with police and troops. Scores broke into the building, wrecking furniture and smashing windows. "	"
throe hours of gun battles. Premier de Gaspcri said he had canceled an order to lay off 15.000 men from a Roman public works project.
The layoff order was the apparent reason for the protest march. The Premier blamed •‘trouble-makers” for the violence, and accused “political forces” of attempting to exploit Italy’s unemployment difficulties. His nation has some 2.5 milion jobless.
Casualty reports on yesterday’s disorder conflicted. The government said.\one person was killed and 29 policemen injured. Unofficial accounts said 15 may havedied.
. . . , .... • :*; • • • ' .. .
YUGOSLAV1X‘m1D'the il S. $150,000 !
indemnity for the deaths of five filers.	,
The State Department said the payment j was “roughly" the amount asked by the U. S. j But. it said, the Yugoslavs have refused to| pay for the plane which was shot down Au- | gust 19 over Yugoslavia, carrying the five I Americans to-death. The Department added I that the U. S. will continue to seek compensation for the loss of that transport, and for one forced down 10 days earlier, were lost in the first incident.
The indemnity payment is to tributed in sums of 930,000 each families of the five dead men.
No lives
be ditto the
and Austria may be injection of funds Finance Corp. That House Press Secre-
Trade with Germany stimulated through an from the Reconstruction was indicated by White
tary Ross. Reporters had asked him why George E. Allen, R.F.C. director was going to Germany with other members of a U. S. mission. Mr. Rose said it was logical to assume some loans might be considered along with other possibilities in an attempt to revive trade with the two European nations.
Striking marine engineers, affiliated with the C.I.O., held fast to their demands for a nation-wide contract before they would end : their walkout. Federal conciliators had hoped j the engineers would agree to try for a set- ■ tlcment with East Coast shipowners and leave the Pacific Coast negotiations until j later. That approach had been agreed to by the other striking unions, the A.F.L. Masters, Mates and Pilots, on condition the C.I.O. engineers would concur. •
Southern Pacific Railroad conductors an-I nounced plans to strike over more than 3.700 ; unsettled grievances. No date was announced. Union spokesmen said a walkout would be deferred pending Federal mediation. Involved are some 1,700 conductors and brakemen in California. Oregon. Nevada. Utah, Arizoan, Texas and New, Mexico.
* • •
Alaskans voted heavily in favor of pro-, posals for the U. S. territory to become a, state. Incomplete returns on the referendum, held Tuesday, showed the proposal carried1 almost two to one. At Juneau, the capital, the vote was about seven to six in favor.
• • ♦
The Boston Red Sox defeated the St. Louis Cardinals 4 to 0 yesterday at Boston, in the third World Series game. That gave Boston two victories and St. Louis one.
• • •
New York City voters continued their rush to register to vote in next month’s State election. With registration ending Saturday, it looked like about 70% more voters would be ready to vote than in 1942, last previous non-Presidential election year.
The Communist Party should be forced to disclose the names of its members and the sources of its funds, the Chamber of Commerce of the United States asserted. It issued a pamphlet charging that Communists hold .many federal jobs, particularly in the Treasury and Labor Departments. A few hours later. Attorney General Clark charged the Republican Parly has "exaggerated” the issue of Communism. He hit what he called Republican attempts to make voters believe "a victory for the Democratic Party would be a victory for the Communists.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.