Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 20, 1946;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
A. breast of
the Market
yesterday ending at
Stocks broke wide open with the industrial average	„
196.13, off 5.50. That was the largest single day’s, decline since May 21, 1940, when it closed at 114.13, off 8.30 following the British debacle at Dunkirk. _
Yesterday’s decline brought the industrial average 10.84 under the bull market closing high of 206.97 on February 2. It was down 8.28 from Saturday’s close. It penetrated by 2.61 the closing low of last week’s break. The decline yesterday, was accompanied by heavy* dealings in all departments: 2,300,000 shares changed hands compared with 1,560,000 the previous session. It was one of the broadest markets in a year with 1.045 Issues appearing on the tape.
Traders were calling it a “Bowles” stock market. Continued controls over prices and wages which Mr. Bowles insists on were conceded an irritant even as labor troubles, holding up production, have encouraged bearishness m the Street. Dismal pictures of first quarter -and even second quarter earnings are being discussed and the occasional dividend omission or reduction has highlighted these expectations. —	-
vulnerable for a long time.
almost perpendicular advance since V-J Day and even at yesterday's close the market has only : etreated about 5% from its high, point, which technicians regard as only a minor decline. Undoubtedly yesterday’s break was accelerated by thin markets, particularly in inactive stocks.
Slocks which were down 2 to more than 7 points included Allied Chemical. American Smelting. Telephone, Bethlehem Steel, Chrysler. Com Products, du Font. General Motors, Goodyear, National Distillers. National Steel. Union Carbide. Atchison. Atlantic Coast Line, L A N.. Pennsylvania. Union Pacific. Eastern Air Lincs. Youngstown Sheet & Tube, Grumman and G L Martin.
Brokers said that some support was noted in many issues in the final trading and that there wore more buying orders in “under the market’’ than there were at the opening when the market was full of sell orders.
George G. Bass of Harris. Upham discussing the marked increase in bearishness in the Street said, “One of the major reasons for hesitating to take a bearish view is that there is too much company on that side.”
Standard OU of New Jersey, with 195.400; 19 Chrysler, with 132,145; 19 Kennecott, with 183.300;	18 General Motors, with 166,300;
17 du Font, with 55,400; 16 Sears Roebuck, with 449,700; 16 Paramount, with 197,300; and 15 American Gas, "with 254,350.
The iparket has been It has shown an
New York Air Brake-
Sales of New York Air Brake Co. in 1945 were 5% under those for the preceding year. The decline was caused by lower ordnance shipments. Deliveries of regular products were above those for the preceding year. Net profit for 1945 was equal to $2.28 a share against $3.01 in 1944. The company reports that production of air brake equipment for domestic railroads exceeds the peak established In 1944. The latest report reveals working capital at $4,692,968. or $951,389 abot'C the level of the year previous. Of the Increase, $530,132 is attributable to post-war credits which became current during the year. The outlook is called bright not only because of the substantial volume of orders being placed by the railroads for new rolling stock, but also because there still remains a considerable volume of business in connection with the mandatory replacement of old style brakes. The company* is confident it will enjoy a substantial expansion in the business of its hydraulic division.
Heard on the Street—
Financial people familiar with the affairs of Exchange Buffet say that January was the best month the company has enjoyed in a number of years, in both sales and profits. The quarterly report of the firm, which is on a fiscal year beginning May 1. is made up as of January 31. and is expected to show net income of about 27 cents a share. Improved sales, these sources say, are expected to continue until the vacation season starts. * • • Latest addition to prospective business for Boeing Aircraft is the report that Sweden will purchase four to six Stratncruisers. They cost $1 250 000 each • • • Financial people estimate that McCall Corp *s net income for 1946 may' he in excess of $8 a share • • • There is more bearishness in the Street at the moment than has been noted since V-J Day. One group asserts that reports for the first quarter will be poor, with quite a few in the red These people contend, however, that before the end of the second quarter there will be a definite change In the trend. Another school of thought says that it will be the fourth quarter before there is a definite upward earnings trend, and that in the interval declines will continue. • • * Meanwhile, the market has become more and , more selective, and investors are buying into groups that are strikes and lack buying has gone ment store and are expected to some time to come.
which have been “acting well” in recent irregular markets are the sugars and movies, while individual “good action” is noted in Pfizer. Rayonier. Deere, Thatcher, and West Indies Sugar.
Noblltt-Sparks Industries, Inc.——
Stockholders of Noblitt-Sparks Industries, Inc., have been told they must expect first-quarter losses	“	’	’ *
has reconverted, it has not been able to attain full production because of shortages of materials, according to Glenn W. president. Profits for the third quarters of last year were cut cancellation of war contracts and	_
the company to obtain needed tools, machinery and equipment for civilian production. As a result, the company reported earnings for 1945 equal to $2.85 a share, before renegotiation, compared with $4.66 before renegotiation in 1944. Renegotiation refunds for 1944 cut the company's earnings to $3.21 a common share. At present, Nobhtt-Sparks is producing limited quantities of automotive parts. Also in limited production are home radios, metal outdoor chairs and tables, metal ironing tables, electric heaters and electric irons. Scheduled for production in the next few months are metal laundry tubs, toasters, coffee makers and waffle baker and cooker tions. The company has expanded space by 50%. and a new factory erected to increase production.
Even though the company
Thompson, and fourth sharply by inability of
comblna-its plant is being
Investment Company Portfolio*—
The list of stocks held by the number of investment companies (30 leaders) has not changed substantially during the past year, said the National Association of Investment Companies. As of December 31, the 10 stocks most widely held were as follows Twenty-two of the funds held Montgomery Ward, with an aggregate of 299.600 shares in their portfolios. 21 held North American, with 1,229,200 shares. 31 had
greatest
not expected to suffer from of materials. Some of this into moving picture, departliquor firms whose reports be satisfactory, at least for Among groups
Market View s—
An •"Oil Industry Survey” has been compiled by Eastman, Dillon & Co. • • * Said J. R. Williston & Co.: “Latest SEC reports still show a preponderance of liquidation of stocks by insiders. This naturally leads to the query —who are the buyers? The answer is, the public, meaning the small investor either directly or indirectly through the open end investment trust. How good is the buying? Well, for one thing it is outright buying for cash. This means stocks are going into Un boxes—and experience proves that once they go into tin boxes they are awfully hard to get out—at least as long as dividends are being paid.” •	* • A. J Messing of Herzfeld A
Stern in “Reading the Charts’* said “Irrespective of the uncertainty of the near-by trend, the longer term objectives for the market remains unchanged. The fundamental factors upon which the present bull market is based continue in as great force as heretofore and will, in my opinion, operate to lead the market up to the objectives which I have set in bo many previous market letters.” •	•	•
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Blaw-Knox Co.-
Considerable attention has been attracted to Blaw«Knox Co. recently with the stock selling at new highs. New lines of business which the oompany entered during the last few years seem almost certain to give it a normal annual sales volume far above its prewar rate. Even though most of the company's war contracts were canceled shortly after V-J Day, sales for 1945 are understood to have exceeded the 1944 total of $125 million.
Last year Blaw-Knox acquired manufacturing rights for the Zanderol process for applying insulating varnish to electrical parts. It also acquired from the J. O. Ross Engineering Co. of New York, the right to sell, fabricate and install the Ross Supertherm hot water heating system. Blaw-Knox also purchased the plant inventory and uncompleted contracts of the Buffalo Foundry A Machine Co., and a new plant was completed at Philadelphia a few months ago to manufacture a combined anthracite and bituminous coal product known as “White Glove Packaged Fuel.” However its sale has not been pushed because further improvements are under way. All products added in recent years have been the result of cash purchases, trade negotiations or the development of Blaw-Knox engineers, so there has stockholders' equity, still a small part of as world conditions
been no dilution of the Export businass. while total sales, ahould grow improve.
Marshall Field A Co.—
Goods unavailable during the war are once more beginning to appear In limited quantities on the shelves of the department stores operated by Marshall Field A, Co., according to H. M. McBain, president. Steps taken last year	.	.	. .	-
with and shall terly after
In the past twelve months, the company has refinanced its preferred shares, substituting a 4^% issue for the 150.000 6% preferred shares. In addition, the Chicago Merchandise MRrt was sold at a recovery price of about $18 million, enabling the company to retire all its funded debt and get almost entirely out of the real estate business. Marshall Field has no elaborate expansion plans for the near future. The management says: “We think it is sounder policy to concentrate our energies and resources on important improvements in our existing operations.'*
to improve its financial structure, the outlook for continued high lower taxes in 1946, prompted Field directors to increase the dividend for 1946 to 30 cents a paying 20 cents quarterly since past twelve months, the
along sales Mar-quar-share 1942.
or $2 a the year. Bayuk. during 1945, from, the pnee relief granted to
Bayuk Cigars—
Action of Bayuk Cigars. Inc., in increasing its dividend to 50 cents quarterly, from 37 L, cents, is in line with the management’s policy of liberal payments when earnings warrant such action. In 1945. the firm paid four quarterly dividends of 37 cents and an extra dividend of 50 cents in December, share for benefited
the cigar Industry during the latter part of 1944, and from the Improved manpower situation. Bayuk. with its 7*a-cent “Phillies” brand, is the leader in that pnee field, and its 10-cent “Phillies de Luxe* is an important factor in the 10-cent field. President A. Joseph Newman stated recently that one of the most important long-term favorable factors affecting the cigar industry is increased consumption, particularly among men who served in the armed forces.. During the war. the armed forces used over a billion cigars annually. Late in 1940. Bayuk completed additional manufacturing facilities which gave it one of the largest and most modern cigar manufacturing plants in the industry’. Earnings for the year ended December 31,	1945, are reported to compare
favorably with the net Income of $1.24,5.733 ($3.17 a share) shown in the year ended cember 31, 1944.
Co.—
in its dividend rate by reflects better earnings for the coming months
De-
City Ice A Fuel
The increase Ice & Fuel Co. good prospects dividends are continued at the new rate of 4G cents a quarter (the company had been paying 30 cents a quarter since 393S>, the $1.60 annual rate will mark the first increase in dividends since 1928. Since then the company steadily reduced dividends until they hit the $1 20 rate seven years ago. Common share earnings have been increasing in every year since 1942, reaching $2.40 a share In 1945 against $2 06 a share in 1944.
One of the reasons for the Improved showing on the common is that the company has gradually reduced the amount of preferred stock outstanding, until retiring it in 1944. City Ice has under way a broad expansion program to increase facilities for producing and distributing beer and. ice and selling domestic and* commercial refrigerators and ice cream. While this program should help earnings, more immediate benefit is anticipated from elimination of excess profits taxes.
Oliver J. Gingold
City and If