Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 12, 1946;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg.J1,
Abreast
Market
Stocks staged a sharp rally yesterday and the industrial average ended with a 4.83 gain at 172.13; railroads up 1.77 at 50.36 and utilities 34.78. up .98. Trading was active with 2,870,000 shares changing hands. It was the first time in some time that the market had been active on the up side. Previously rallies had been accompanied with small volume and had been of feeble proportions. Yesterday, when the market receded from title to time, trading fell off. Apparently the market was oversold and considerable buying for income purposes as well as replacement buying stemmed the recent avalanche ot selling. There was no change in the news to account for the rally.
Stocks which were up 1 or more points included Allied Chemical 162. up 2; American Smelters 49. up 2%. American Tobacco B 81. up 3: Bethlehem Steel 93%. up 4: Chrysler 93. up 3%: du Poht 176*^, up 4 % : Eastman Kodak 219. up 10%. Johns-Manville 121 up 4: National Steel 78. up 2: Union Carbide 93. up 4: Anaconda 37%, up 2. Ken-nerott 44. up 2%; Montgomery Ward 6S. up 2%: Schonley 68%. up 2%. IT S. Rubber 60%. up 3%: American Telephone, ex-dividend. 175. up 2%: Douglas 82%. up 1%. G L Martin 33%. up 1%: Atchison 92%. up 3%. Atlantic Coast Line 54. up 2 C. & O. 52. un 1%: L A N. 52%. up 2%-. Norfolk & Western 235, up 5* Southern Pacific 48, up 3. Southern Railway 41%. up 2%: Commonwealth A Southern preferred 115. up 2%. and Engineers Public Service 26%. up 2%.
The market was broad on the advance, ’ with 1.096 different issues appearing on the tape and 792 showing advances.
; Monday's sharp break touched margin calls, which, however, were in totals and were in manv cases mens who had borrowed against	_____
prior to July last year, when the 50% margin rule was in effect Accounts with a preponderance of holdings of lower grade railroad common stocks were mostly involved in the calls.
off some moderate tn rusto-securities
leading broker-commentator remarked: "As the charts read now, they say the market , may go a little lower, but it is about time to j look for better support. It is unwise to be- 1 come more bearish as prices sink. • • • • There was a handful of issues in various groups which showed some resistance to the j decline. These were often stocks which have ] good management, earnings and dividend ! records. • • • Some issues which are off 50% , or more from the 1946 highs are American j Cable & Radio. Pacific Tin. Farnsworth. I Western Union A, St Paul common and pre- I ferred. Chicago Ar North Western. Erie, New York Central and Dunhill International. • • • There has been much discussion in the Street in regard to the status of the investment companies in present markets. Arthur Wiesen-berger of Arthur Wiesenberger & Co, specialists in this group, said that “on the average, investment companies were maintaining their normal ratio of 10% to 12% cash against investment in securities.” although a few like Fundamental Investors had increased cash position to 27% before the recent break and which stands at this time at 23%. Some investment compamrs. said Mr Wiesenberger had been taking advantage of high prices to i liquidate sufficient investments to strengthen * their own financial nositinns hv liauidatinr
their own financial position*; hv liquidating bnak loans and retiring debentures and preferreds.
Heard on the Street—
Some of those traders who were most bullish a few months bark are now numbered among the loudest bears • • • Some of the split stocks are still selling at considerably higher prices than they were a few years ago on the basts of the splits • • • Financial people estimate Sutherland Paper may earn $4.30 a share in 1946 compared with $2 16 last year • • • Sales of American Home Products, according to brokers may rise to $125 million this year with estimated net income of about $7 a share giving effect to the recent sale of additional stock Stockholders vote September 19 on a proposed three for one split • • • Owing to the wide distribution of some reorganized railroad securities, market losses in this group have been scattered through many portfolios • • • There is quite a lot of “emotional” selling. For instance, some who would not take profits a few months ago on any of their holdings have recently “cleaned out” their portfolios. • • • Demand’for stocks tn the loan rrovvd has been small throughout the series of breaks in the market. Scarcity of stocks tn the Street for loaning purposes is evidenced by the latest list of stocks which were quoted for a premium of $1 per 100 shares, including Sears Roebuck, Texas Co, Lnited Merchants A- Manufacturers, American Tobacco Co . and Pure Oil. Pacific Gas A Electric and National Lead common were recently quoted at a premium of $2 per lOu shares • • • The railroad average is now through its V-J Day Rftermath low • • • One
Market X lews—
Said Charles Clark A* Co ’ “No one can predict with accuracy the short-term moves of security prices, and we make no attempt to do so We feel, however, that, investors I with cash reserves need not necessarily hurry ‘to reinvest funds We are optimistic about the future of securities and believe that well chosen investments purchased over the next few months will show handsome profits within a year nr two ” • • • w j. F.amgan & Co . has reviewed the General Manifold A Printing Co • • * Dav. Stoddard A- Williams. Inc of New* Haven, Conn. has made an analysis of Stanley Works. • * •	• Vance.
i Sanders A- Co s “Brevits" • “An unfortunate condition at the present time is that it appears that a fairly large segment of the uninformed public has been buying the type of securities which a seasoned investment manager would consider to be highly speculative by past standards, solely on the strength of spectacular and non-recurring business profits whn h many of the marginal companies have enjoyed during the last three or four years Accordingly, if past experience is any criterion, it seems safe to assume that the value of good management in highly competitive markets will again be demonstrated and a lot of overconfident investors m mediocre securities will have again learned ' their lesson the hard way “ • • • H Hentz A Co has issued a list of stocks which the firm terms “In An Attractive Buying Range.”
I the ' ket.
mg
> non .i.-v.-. imipm 1 markets, and notes that
1939-1942 bear ma:krt
• Shearson. Hammill * Co discusses question, “Are we in a short hear manor a large correction with an undrrly-bull ticnd”’ • • • Thomson A- McKin-hsts a comparison of the la^t six boar the duration of the wa* 959 days, with
63 points’ decline In the industrial average to 92 92 on April 28. or 40 4ff, from the h gh of September 12.	1939. • •	• John
Wcyble of Ristine A Co.: “There has been relatively a considerable amount of emotional, or fear psychology, selling. In is time for clear thinking and perspective planning for investors. Markets of this type- must burn themsek es out before the atmosphere clears. After this, we feel that opportunity will present itself for advantageous switches m portfolios. replacing the weaker holdings with stronger resulting in increased income and opportunity of capital appreciation over the coming months ** • •	~
Smith, Barney & Co • urally concerned as to decline is indicative of of business recession and be folly to maintain magnitude witnessed by the market will not have its effect upon business conditions. Nevertheless, there is little reason for believing that we are on the threshold of a major business depression Depressions result from a preceding lack of balance in the economic structure The ch*ef cause of unbalance in the present situation is inflated costs in relation to selling price* It has long been apparent that some per.od of recession in business would be required to bring a better balance mtn the economy before taking off into the widely expected several years of general prosperity, and that is what the market probably is discounting.”
• Edson Gould of “Investors are nat-whether or not the a prolonged period liquidation It would hat a decline of the
Franklin Storrs Corp.-
Earnings of Franklin Stores Corp for the fiscal year ended last June 30 are estimated to exceed $2 a common «haic. compared with $1 46 a share in the previous year. The stock is listed on the New York Curb Exchange Franklin Stores operates a chain of womens and childen’s specialty stores, located principally in the Southwest. The company paid a quarterly dividend of 25 cents a share on July 22. lifting the annual rate to $1 a shar*-from the previous 80 cents a share. Sales for the 12 months ended June 30. last, amounted to $23,471,917. a record high and a r.*c of 6'. over the previous year's sales of $22,146,837
September 30 will make a good showing. In the three month* ended June 30. Sharon had a profit of $251,974. or 40 cents a share on the common stock. In the third quarter of last year the net profit amounted to $176,856, equal to 26 cents a common share. Sharon recently sold 30.000 shares of Mullins Manufacturing Corp Class B common stock to the Mullins company. This transaction reduced Sharon's holdings of Mullins to 147,500 shares, 27.1% of the total outstanding
Oliver J. Gingold
Monsanto Chemical Co.-
Monsanto Chemical’s new shares, representing a three-for-onc split of the old stock, showed earnings at the annual rate of nearly $3 a share during the six months ended June 30. However, a strike in three of the firm's plants will probably have a serious effect on profits in the current quarter. The strike has been running since June J 9. Prior to the strike, sales were running at the rate of aiound $100 million annually, close to wartime peak levels. Demand is apparently sufficient to hold sales at this level, provided operations could be maintained at normal levels Theic is a tight situation in nearly all leading chenucal matenals. Even the ’motor industry, one of the leading consuming industries. is running baJovv normal. This situation has been accentuated by strikes not only in Monsanto's plants but in other places Monsanto recently announced acquisition of Government-owned styrene plants in Texas, and the enlargement of its own plastic facilities. Styrene, used during the war for making synthetic rubber, is rapidly rising in importance as a plastic material. Output from Monsanto’s new facilities will be at the rate of 80 million pounds a year, adding about $20 million, or 20%, to matel.v. when the this should be an proving earnings.
current salex levels. Ulti-busine-ss situation eases, important factor in ini-
Sharon Steel-
August was the best month in Sharon Steel Corp history. Daily, weekly and monthly records were bioken m most departments, with the result that production and shipment totals were greater than ever before, ir is likely that net profits for the quarter ending
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.