Prices Nose Dive on Commodity, Security Markets; Grains, Hides, Lard ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 11, 1948;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Cotton Skids Up to 2c a Pound; Retailers Cutting- Prices; Industrial Stocks Off 4.17
Prices nose-dived on the nation's commodity and security markets yesterday. Some of the markets were experiencing1 a buyers’ strike, and a sellers' rush to unload.
The commodity break was more widespread than any day last week. All grains, hides, cocoa and lard for future delivery declined the limit permitted for one day’s trading* under exchange rules, while cotton and cottonseed oil also dropped the limit for some deliveries. The Dow-Jones Commodity Futures Index plunged 6.10—the most severe decline for a single day since its compilation began in 1^33.
In retail stores more price cuts were made across the nation. No housewives' buying strike has as yet become evident, but some leading chain store executives were frankly worried that consumers may wait for still lower prices as buyers have in the wholesale markets. Some stores were becoming reluctant to publicize further price cutting, for fear their competitors would undercut.
The stock exchanges experienced a sharp price drop. The Dow-Jones industrial average broke 4.17 to 165 65. This drop was the sharpest since last April 14.
Not all markets were declining equally. Livestock, for instance, which dropped as much as $3.50 a hundredweight on Monday, yesterday declined only 50 cents to a dollar. A steady spot in futures was sugar; at New York the world contract rose 5 points following reports the United States and Cuba have tentatively reached an agreement covering a million tons of sugar that the U. S. had agreed tentatively to buy a million tons of raw sugar from Cuba at 4 cents a pound.
Price drops in contracts for future delivery of commodities included: Wheat and rye 10 cents a bushel; corn and soybeans 8 cents a bushel; oats 6 cents a bushel: lard 2 cents a pound; cottonseed oil 1.65 to 2 cents a pound: cotton 1.42 to 2 cents a pound; hides 2 cents a pound; cocoa 1 cent a pound; coffee 1.13 to 1^48 cents a pound; wool 3 to 9*£ cents a
pound and rubber 0.55 to 0.70 cents a pound. Wholesale Markets Nearly Stagnate
While retailers were cutting prices of items like meat, butter, lard and flour, wholesale markets were reported nearly stagnate. *
In New York, for instance, one wholesale meat merchant commented: “There simply is no market for meat." Butchers, bakers, restaurants and retailers were demanding more substantial price slashes before they would show interest. Since it takes several days for delivery of most wares, they were not eager to commit themselves. Typical of the haggling going on was the “buying" of lamb; butchers and restaurants thought this meat should be a nickle a pound or so below last week's prices while the packers were holding out for no more than a couple of pennies cut.
Food stores were cutting prices as rapidly as possible. The size of the day's reductions varied by cities. Bacon prices were down as much as 12 cents in Springfield, Ill., 15 cents in Minneapolis and 10 cents In Atlanta. Ga.. according to the United Press.
Flour prices were down 14 cents for 25 pounds in Detroit chain stores. 18 cents at Atlanta. Ga., and 25 cents at Indianapolis.
Butter prices dropped as’much as 6 cents in Indianapolis, 4 to 5 cents at Milwaukee and 2 to 3 cents in Detroit. Butter prices will go on down, merchants predicted, because consumer resistance to this "dollar-a-pound" spread was increasing. Wholesale prices at New York yesterday declined as much as 2^4 cents a pound.
New Price Tags
Here is some of the price slashing by leading food chains that went on yesterday in New York—of particular interest because the big city's shops were among the first to start
to
40c from 53c	
59	"	65
65	"	69
63	”	65
42	"	45
28	"	29
49	"	51
39	"	42
per pound.
rewriting price tags: Loin of pork.......cut
Fresh ham.......... "
Pork chops.........	**
Smoked ham.......... "
Shortening .........	**
Print lard .........	~
Flour ............  **
Flour .............  "
(*) Per five pound sack on standard brands, (t) Per five pound sack on private brands. Print butter was cut to 94 cents from
C) (+>
96
cents per* pound.	‘
Competition was keen. For example, when a reduction of 8 cents was announced on
Mazola oil. grocer* announced the price of Wesson would be cut to meet the lower quotation.
The action of retailers in cutting the shortening price came quickly after the nation's two leading manufacturers of that product announced a reduction at the manufacturing level. Lever Bros., makers of Spry, and Procter A Gamble, producers of Crisco, announced a two cent per pound cut earlier in the day.
Buyers Withdraw From Market
Still farther back in the supply "pipeline" for making this product, shortening manufacturers had withdrawn from the cash market for all edible oils—and sellers were fruitlessly seeking bids. Crude cottonseed and peanut oil in the southeast were both offered at 21 cents a pound, a dip of l3,4 cents from Monday. Corn oil was marked down half a cent a pound on the Chicago market. Meanwhile, the wholesale price of lard in Chicago plummeted more than 1*4 cents a pound. In all cases there were almost no takers even at cut rates.
It is the custom of soap manufacturers, when they find edible fata and oils becoming attractive in price, to step in and bolster their inventories. Yesterday, however, very little of this sort of support appeared.
Textile Buyers Cautious
The break in commodity prices created additional caution among textile buyers. The theory was that price levels on cotton textiles will move lower. So far there has been a weakening on certain popular print cloths for prompt delivery; for these, prices have moved down as much as 4 cents a yard from December levels. The weakness set in at the turn of the year; no sharp change has been seen yet this week.
The wool futures market in New York broke yesterday as much as 9 cents a pound. The sharpest dip was for distant delivery: nearby deliveries were down only 3 *-4 cents a pound. This commodity had been advancing steadily since January, 1947. But there's as yet no clear indication that the break will mean a cheaper suit for you. American Woolen Co. has announced price rises of 8% to 12% on worsted wool fabrics to be used in tailoring this autumn's suits. That would be about a $1.50 hike in the fabric cost for one suit.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.