What's News--: Business and Finance World Wide
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 13, 1950;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Business and Finance
EXCISE TAX slashes wore shelved.
The Senate Finance Committee agreed to drop the legislation because of the Korean situation. President Truman is expected to make a statement today backing up the committee's decision. It was clear, though, that the action does not close the door on somo kind of tax bill cither in this session of Congress, or in a special session later in the year. Treasury officials held several meetings yesterday on the question of seeking higher taxes to help finance the Korean war. Figures on possible eosts of the Far Eastern operations were requested from the Defense Department. Early estimates from the Pentagon were vague, but were put in tegns of ■'several billions.”
World Wide
Stocks continued under pressure on unsettling factors in the foreign situation. The Dow-Jones industrial!, broke to the lowest levels since late January. They tumbled 5.59 points to 199.06. Utilities receded 0.95 to 37,74, a new low since last October 3. But rails gave up only 0.24 on the dav. Price changes in U. S. commodity markets were narrow, with trading relatively light. In London, tin again advanced sharply on fears that Far Eastern supplies might be cut off.
House Ways and Means Committee approved a bill to suspend the copper import duty of two cents a pound until next June 30. The duty went back into effect July 1 for the first time since early 1941. But the measure would make the suspension retroactive to the start of this month. 'She House is expected to vote another year of duty free copper imports. Western senators will fight, however, to hold the extension to eight months.
Lead was advanced a half cent a pound to 11’/s cents. New York, and 11.30 cents, St. Louis. Domestic consumer buying spurted on the price increase which came as a surprise since lead stocks had been reported plentiful. The upturn was preceded over the past week by a substantial pick-up in lead demand from Europe. This was laid to nervousness lest the Far Eastern fighting restrict the metal's supplies.
AMERICAN TROOPS fell back across the
Hum Klvvr und formed new defence lines.
A rear-guard detachment kept up a stall, ing fight to cover the crossing. The number ot American casualties was not known, but was presumed to be high. The Kum River la 13 miles north ot Taejon, kev American de. tense point and provisional capital nt South Korea. In Tokyo. Lt. Gen. Walton Walker was named commander ot U. S. ground opera, tions In Korea Walker |« an expert In tank warfare.
The Kum Kli'er n understood to provide u natural obstacle to the North Korean tanks. The red radio, in an unconfirmed broadcast. claimed 700 L’. S. soldiers were killed and too captured at a {mint 22 miles northwest of Taejon.
In Washington. Sen. Johnson (D., Tex.) demanded that all National Guardsmen and paid military reserves be called up immediately to provide 832.000 more men. He also urged Congress to enact emergency legislation authorizing Truman to Invoke full industrial mobilization. Sen. Thomas (D. Okla.I said the Defense Department will ask Congress "tor a billion dollars or more next week" to meet the costs of the Korean fighting
• • •
NERVOUSNESS PR EV	In Eun*pr
n\rr the possibility of further reel attack*.
In Belgrade, Yugoslav newspapers reported the movement of Bulgarian satellite troops along their frontier. In Berlin. U. S. intelligence officers said they had received reports about mysterious movements of East German police troops. They were trying to trace their destinations.
tn Washington. Secretary of State Acheson said he had seen press reports about red concentrations about Yugoslavia. But he refused to comment on their truth or falsity. He added any further aggression at a time like this would be a matter of utmost seriousness.
The Defense Department, in making its plans, has proceeded on the theory that trouble f Isrwherr than in one area j< possible Among the potential danger spots arc Yugoslavia. Iran. French Indo* Chiha and Formosa.
Acheson, at his news conference, said conferences are going on as to help which other nations may give in the Korea fighting. He said he ccul’d not say whether other countries, aside from Nationalist China, had proposed sending in ground forces.
Firestone raised prices to automotive manufacturers by 8% to 10% for original equipment passenger car tires, 12x,£% for truck and bus tires and 6% for farm tractor casings. Other major tire producers are expected to take similar action shortly because of rising costs for rubber and o ner raw materials. Prices for replacement tires, which were advanced 21/->% to 5% throughout the industry in late May, also are likely to go up again soon.
TILE SENATE kHMoff all chances for action this session on the F.E.P.C. bill.
It did so by refusing for the second time in two months to limit debate on the measure. The vote was 55 for limiting debate and 33 against. This was nine votes short of the necessary 64 to invoke the gag rule. There were eight absentees. The outcome was a victory for the southern Democrats in their perennial battle to kill by filibuster or threat to filibuster this key plank in Truman’s civil rights program.
The measure would prohibit racial and religious discrimination tn employment. It would be enforced through establishment of a Fair Employment Practices Com m ission.
SIoanc-Blabon Corp, has increased prices by 3% to 7$c on felt base rugs and certain linoleum lines, effective Sep** tember 1. Only last June 19 the company trimmed prices by 6% to 10% on felt base floor coverings. These cuts followed similar reductions by Congo-leum-Nairn, Inc., and Armstrong Cork Co., the two largest producers of these items which are made from rags and paper dipped in asphalt'.	„
The House passed 195 to 151 a sharply restricted bill to guarantee up to $250 million m American investments abroad under the “Point Four” program. The guarantees would apply only to enterprises which do not compete with American goods and only in countries which will make their own guarantees by treaty. ’Congress has already authorized up to $35 million to start another part of the program, technical assistance to backward areas. The Senate Appropriations Committee, however, has voted only $10 million for this project.
Texas crude oil buyers expect demand for .refined petroleum products next month to be normal. They plan to increase their August crude oil purchases only 72,871 barrels a day over July schedules. This month’s rate is 72,000 barrels a day more than in June. Though the Korean situation, has brought no immediate scramble for oil, it has caused some producers to case their stand against crude oil imports.
Sen. McCarthy (R.. Wis.) sent to Truman signed statements which he said prove that State Department personnel files were stripped of derogatory data In 1946. McCarthy said the statements were signed by one present employe of the Department and three former employes. McCarthy also produced a copy of a letter from F.B.I. chief Hoover. He said this proves Sen. Tydings (D.. Md.) did not tell the truth when he said an F.B.I. study of SI loyalty files showed nothing to sustain charges that the records had been tampered with.
Company Notes—
Ford motor Co.—Steel shortages caused the company to eliminate Saturday Ford car assemblies this week at five plants and put two Mercury plants on a four-day week for the rest of the month.
Motor products Corp.—Voted a 20% stock dividend and the regular quarterly 50-cent dividend on the common stock.
Pfeiffer Brewing — Authorized a 50-cent dividend on the new common, stemming from the recent two-for-one split. The old stock paid 50 cents quarterly.
Pressed Steel Car Co.—Has sold its McKees Rock. Pa., plant—closed since 1949— to a syndicate which plans to open the 100-acre area to a variety of industries.
Sen. Olin Johnson was returned to the Senate in a South Carolina Democratic primary victory over Gov. J. Stom Thurmond, States Rights presidential candidate in 1948. South Carolinians also brought ex-Secretary of State James Byrnes out ot political retirement by nominating him governor over three opponents.
The Army said its draftees will be given 14 weeks ot basic training and will then be assigned to posts within the ~	~
some will go overseas. But said the number going over large nor happen soon.”
U. S. Later, a spokesman “will
not be
to the most
Senate federal civilian
Markets—
Stocks—Volume 3.200,000 shares. Dow-Jones industrials 199.06, off 5 59; rails 53.37; off .34; utilities 37.74, off .95. London—Financial Times common share index 112.0, unchanged.
Bonds—Volume $7,110,000. Dow-Jones 40 bonds 99.49, off .04; high grade rails 102.01. off .15; speculative rails 89.66. off .07; utilities 104.15. up .05; industrials 102.14. up .03.
Commodities—Dow-Jones futures • index 166.75. up .19.
The House passed and sent legislation to give heads of agencies “absolute discretion” to fire employes considered to be bad security risks.
* * *
The A.F.L. and C.I.O. announced they wilt start a new series of “unity” talks July 25. their first since May. 1947. But it is considered highly doubtful the discussions will lead to merger of the two organizations.
Earnings—
6 mo«. smy 31:
Av«i Mfr. Co. ...<
6 mos. June 30:
Barker Bro*.....
24 weeks June 11: Me»d Corp.......
—Net Income— Per Com. Shr.
---- 1950	---- hS.67
.S3
3.07
French Premier Rene Pleven formed a new middle-of-the-road coalition cabinet, end* ing 18 days of political strife which left France without official leadership. For the first time since February, the Socialists were represented in the cabinet.
1950
S4.S04.6S5
331.593
2.406.916
1919
$2.366.640
406.SS6
1.352 037
10-10
H4.3S
1.00 ^harei’ouutandfniTii close’of respective periods? .(Today’s .Index on Page 2).
Annin & Co., New York flag manufacturer. completed a rush order of 500 United Nations banners for use by the fighting forces in Korea. Annin & Co. has been making flags for various armies since the Civil War.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.