Abreast of the Market: A Stock-Market Appraisal EDITED BY OLIVER J. GINGOLD
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 18, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 23
Abreast of the Market
A Stock Market Appraisal
Btookcrc Wie«e Uwir4i»rr r—rtion to ttee Federal Pwnrr s am— wiH toe the stepping ** •<	sn ratted ~scicky’ otterwg*
The iamcMi Trirpte—r khitnrei wtoacto toad toeea renag	paiaful ■Inarai an. were
qtnckiy tanpoeed sC.
Ttoe -mniiTrer— mar wteea a tat af stocks were toeguamng to skew sign* toeing at lea at temperariiv oversold. Traders toad noted that quale a lengthening: list ot stocks “held well** during ■rllmg phases since the beginning of November. Some of these companies are expected to contmue to abow good earnings aad their dividends are hagb ta tbe so-called “sate” category. Many of these stocks have been ••carefully” bought by port* folios both m and out of tastaiutaoas.
Tax selling continued heavy last week both in periods of weakness and strength. Such sell* mg to establish looses and profits for tax purposes has been heavier this year than in half a dozen years past. Some brokers say it will pile up to tbe largest such year in a decade. They explain this is because there is more room to save taxes through taking of looses, and also because people still have some fairly substantial paper profits an other stocks which tbej’ve been anxious to salvage at tbe same time. By the same token, brokers report reinvestment ot such released funds has been comparatively light. Much of this getting back into tbe mar* ket will await clarification of business expectations for 1938.
Railroads continue the most disappointing division of the equity market. During last week their average hit their lowest since April 28. 1934. The fact that carloadings for the week ended November 9 suffered the sharpest slump of the year did not help matters.
At the same time some traders believed the extreme bearishness that has developed on the railroad group may have been overdone in a number of stocks that represent diversification from railroad activities. This has brought some careful buying into a few issues like Union Pacific. There has been also some institutional buying of a few leading railroads like Southern Railway, which Has long been a beneficiary of shifting of trade from North to South. Northern Pacific. Southern Pacific. Norfolk A Western. Katy issues. B. A O and CAO. On the other hand, brokers believe that the weakness of the railroad securities in recent months has certainly lost them many followers.
There is some discussion in financial circles that Christmas retail business will be well up to recent years' totals even allowing for what merchandisers predict will be a drop m luxury sales. There has been no important reduction in consumer spending, despite some recent nationwide reduction in retail sales. Some merchants report fairly heavy Christmas chopping earlier than usual.
While Wall Street was pleased with the reduction in the rediscount rate, some bears are wondering if it is not a case of ”too little, too late.” The bears who have been running things in the stock market for so long suggest that tight money and other factors may have been bringing the economy close to a deflationary situation.
As the week closed there was an increase in the number of adherents to the theory that a rally might take the industrial average to the neighborhood of 460. which is mentioned as an overall resistance point.
Last Week’s Market-
Reducing the rediscount rate last Thursday caused all three Dow-Jones averages and volume to climb sharply on Friday.
Over the full week, the Dow^Jones industrials rose 5.23 points or 1.20% and the utilities were up 1.04 points or 1.60%. Rails, despite a 2.90-point rise on Friday, were off 0.52 or 0.49% on the week. Rails have now declined for six straight weeks; industrials during the same period have closed the weeks between a range of 441.16 and 433.83.
Volume for the week rose to 11.670,000 shares from 9,670.000 the previous week and above the 10.040.000 shares traded in the like
week a year ago.
Major New York bank stocks took little inspiration from the decrease in the discount rate. They were up fractionally on the week, and derived most of their impetus from the announcement that the Hanover Rank plannee
a cae-for-nine stock dividend. As to the discount rate decrease, dealers said, investor* were undecided tvm to rea< t For bank sto< ks tawer interest rates might mean lower income Hanover R3"1-- was tbe leader during the week's trading, rising 2S».	Trust was
up *<. Chase Manhattan up First National City up and Manufacturers Trust up Stock of J. p. Morgan A Co. was off 2. and Neu* York Trust Co., which has moved up in recent weeks, was off 13.
Stocks of major insurance companies were higher on the week, with an especially active day on Friday. Price rises were reported in life, fire and casualty stocks in fairly equal measure. Aetna Fire was up I. Home Insurance up 2. Continental Casualty up 1.
Heard on the Street
ttaeurittea. lac., investment company, plans to exercise its 6.000 rights to purchase Standard Oil erf NJ. . . . Gladding. McBeaa. which moves to the Big Board from the American Stock Exc hange this morning with the symbol GDL, has a research program which has developed, according to the com p«nv interesting potential uses for ceramic materials in the electronic, nucleonic and missile fields. . .Brryfu* Fund. Inc., open-end investment company with September 30 total net 1 assets of $13 496.446. stepped up its combined cash and receivables and IT S. Treasury bills to 47.2', of net assets in the recent quarter. As of June 30, the fund held no Treasury* bills and had a cash position of 18.56', ot net assets During the quarter the fund bought 4.000 shares of Abbott Laboratories, 15.000 Crowell-Collier (American i. 4.000 General Electric.
10.500	Parke-Davis. 10.000 Pfizer and 5.000 IL J. Reynolds B. The fund eliminated no less than 16 stocks from its portfolio, which -on June 30 numbered 28 securities Among these were 15.000 I'.S Foil Co. B <American*. 5.200 Caterpillar Tractor. 12.000 Outboard Marine.
9.500	Bucyrus-Erie. and 7.000 Bethlehem Steel.
.	. Missouri Pacific Railroad directors are ex-
pe<t*»d to declare a dividend at today* meeting So far this war. $3.50 has been paid $2 in April. 75 cents m July and 75 cents in October ( It is expected that recent declines in carload-lngt*. with a concurrent drag on 1957 earnings. ■ will result m n declaration today of less than 75 cents a share.	;
Market Views—
OPINION G M Uwb of E F Hutton A Co , said. ‘•The cut in the discount rate was cei- 1 tainlv a complete surprise as regards timing ' Il was expected sooner or later In view of in- I creasing signs of decreased business, such as the lower carloadings and other factors such as the financing problems of the Treasure and the political considerations of the Admimstru-tion. It is unlikely that the rally will carry much beyond the early part of this week From an investment point of view, the news should lend support to consumer and defensive stocks bought principally for income return. The cut has important long-pull implications in giving a clue to Federal Reserve thinking Concern over the boom began in 1955 and was followed by six discount rate increases. This defined the Reserve's thinking about upper inflationary limits. Now we know their feeling about lower limits.* I think it will take time to turn the earnings situation around and hence those stocks which have decreased earnings probabilities ahead of them will only rally rather than completely cancel out their downtrends. The news is encouraging, but it will take more news and more time to lay a base for a long-lasting upturn.”
ANALYSIS: E. F. Hutton A Co. has a brief on Hercules Powder. . . . Dempsey-Tegeler A Co.. Los Angeles, has comment on Phillips Petroleum and Borden. . . . Shearson. Hammill A Co. has* a short report on Air Products. . . . Harris, Upham A Co. has a brief on Scott Paper. . . . Walter G. Bemthal of Filor, Bul-
lard A Smyth has a memo on Curtis Publishing. . . . Walston A Co. has an eight-page review* of Bank of America N.T. & S.A. . . . Electric Bond A Share is reviewed by Henry Mon-tor Associates. Inc. . . . H. Hentz A Co. has an analysis of Louisiana Land A Exploration Co.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.