Broker Firms, Manned on Holiday, Get More 'Buy' Than 'Sell' Orders: ...
By a WALL STREET JOURNAL Staff Reporter
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 31, 1962;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 3
Broker Firms, Manned on Holiday. Get More ‘Buv’ Than ‘Self Orders
Tuesday’s Market Turnabout Credited to ‘Flash Wires.' Big Investors’ Purchases
an hour and a half late only to find them executed at much different prices
One Neu Jersey buyer attracted by a pnce of 98ls for American Telephone A Telegraph Co. on the tape, found the stock was trading above 107 when he went to place the order
Mofct Analysts Expect Further Rise
Expectation of further price strength was fairly general among market analj sts late Tuesday and yesterday. “I think there will be a further rebound m the market for the rest of the week at least.'* said Eldon Grimm of Walston St Co. "The panic seems to be over. We recommend buying for the short term.” he added.
What will happen further in the future ** Caution and conservatism characterize many of the answers "If there's any validity at ail to the idea that stock prices uere too high, it doesn’t make much sense to run them right back up where they were. ’ said the head of the research department of a large firm
Harry Kahn. Bache & Co research partner, said the firm is urging customers to review their holdings, aiming for "good income and reasonable price earnings multiples.” He mentioned a dividend return of 4S* to 5', and a pnce between 10 and 20 times annual earnings as cntena for "true value.”
Some See Market Activity Slowing Down
Several brokers predicted market activity would slow down. Milton Leeds, partner of Pershing & Co., stated: "After Monday's big break and Tuesday’s big recovery the gyrations should be more moderate. The market should simmer down soon, although I think we will have some wild sessions for a few days "
At least half a dozen big brokerage firms were among those that late Monday or Tuesday indicated to their customers it might be time to buy stocks. Merrill Lynch, which has 120 offices in the U.S., sent out a wire statmg: "Prices have declined so sharply in recent weeks that many stocks with solid earnings prospects are now selling at levels which provide an attractive yield and are available at pnee-eamings multiples considered reasonable by historical standards."
Other brokerage firms known to have sent out similar wires are: Walston & Co.: E. F. Hutton & Co.: Francis I. duPont & Co.: Paine, Webber. Jackson & Curtis: Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades ft Co.: H. Hentz St Co., and Crutten-den, Podesta & Miller.
Institutional investors apparently bought stocks aggressively Tuesday Several brokers said they noticed mutual funds starting to come into the market Friday and stepping up their purchases Monday and Tuesday.
One broker noted that, as the stock market showed signs of turning near noon Tuesday, short-term traders who had been waiting for just such a rally added to the buying.
Some Executives Bought Their Firms* Stock
Walstbn & Co said some corporation executives bought stock of their own companies Tuesday. The firm noted that there were rumors of the corporations themselves buying, but it said it saw no signs of such purchases.
Closing prices on the Pacific Coast Stock 1 Exchange, where trading ends an hour later than in New York, were frequently a little 1 higher than on the Big Board. General ' Motors, for instance, closed at 50% in New [ York and at 52 in San Francisco. U.S. Steel ' ended at 53% on the .East Coast and at 53% ' on the West Coast. *
( -Apierlcan Stock Exchange prices and * volume also went up. Turnover increased to - 5,330,000 shares Tuesday, the largest volume since May 4. 1961, from 2.9K0.000 Monday. The four most active stocks advanced, and most , of the larger price moves were upward.
Stock prices in the over-the-counter market also rebounded strongly Tuesday afternoon following a slump since mid-March that’s outpaced the declines on the Big Board, according to dealers in this market.
By a Wall Street Journal staff Rrpartrr
NEW YORK — Major brokerage firms. ( manned over the holiday yesterday, reported . more customers were placing orders to buy . stocks than to sell them. This caused brokers ( and analysts to predict that stock prices stand , a good chance of continuing to rise, at least for , a short time, following Monday’s and Tuesday’s , plunge and rebound. U.S. exchanges were ' closed yesterday.
The brokerage offices were open to clean up huge accumulations of work that had piled up the preceding two days when more than 24 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange. Tuesday’s volume of 14.750,000 shares has been exceeded in the history of the exchange only once, on Oct. 29. 1929. during the 1929 stock-market crash, when 16,410,000 shares were traded.
Merrill Lynch. Pierce. Fenner & Smith. Inc., the biggest brokerage house, said all its offices were staffed yesterday. A spokesman for the company’s head office in New York said: "We've gotten many orders, and I’d say they were substantially more on the buy side than the sell side.” Three other big firms said they were receiving large numbers of orders, also with more to buy than to sell, following Tuesday’s near-record rebound of 27.03 points in the Dow Jones industrial average from Monday’s close. The industrial average had plunged 34.95 points Monday.	«
The wave of buying that turned the stock market around came after prices had careened lower for six successive sessions, including Monday when the drop in the Dow Jones in-’dustrials was the biggest in number of pcints since Oct. 28, 1929.
Brokers’ Telegrams Spurred Turnabout
* While delays in the reporting of transactions rnXke it impossible to pinpoint when the stock mtrket stopped going down Tuesday morning and started upward, the recovery started about noon. The turnabout was caused chiefly by: “Flash” telegrams sent out by major brokerage houses late Monday and early Tuesday recommending that customers buy stocks, and stepped-up purchases of common stocks by mutual funds, pension funds and other institutional Investors. Rumors that some corporations were buying their own stocks could not be confirmed.
“Blue chip” stocks, such as American Telephone & Telegraph. General Motors. Standard Oil (New Jersey), U.S. Steel and Bethlehem Steel, led the recovery, just as they had been among the most actively traded stocks while the, market was plunging downward.
The Dow-Jones industrial average’s gain ot 27.03 points amounted to 4.68%, with the closing level 603.96. This was its second largest point advance in history; exceeded only by a 28.40-point climb, or 12.34%, on Oct. 30. 1929, to 258.47; trading volume that day was 10,727,320 shares.	, „
From its closing level last Friday until its hourly reading at noon Tuesday, the Dow-Jones industrial average had sunk 48.64 points to a low ot 563.34.' "The.massive recovery of the afterpoon recouped 40.72 points of this decline, or about 83%. At Uft!15632S4-1OW, the W dustrial average was down 171.57 points, or 23.35%. from its record high of 734.91 set Dec. 13, 1961.	\
Rails Rose 1.78% on Tuesday
The ’ other DOw-Jones stock averages bounced back strongly too. The railroad average. down 3.42 points at its noon reading, recovered to close at 124.53, up 2.18 points, or 1.78%, from its final level Monday. This was j its largest rise since Jan. 3.
The utility average; down 2.89 points at its 1 p.m. posting Tuesday, climbed back to end at 109.73. up 5.38 points, or 5.15% from Monday. This gain was its biggest in points since Nov. 13, 1929.	.	.
More stock issues were traded on the Big Board Tuesday than ever before. Of the 1,543 stocks listed, 1,399 were bought and sold. The early decline pushed 1,032 stocks down to new 1962 lows, the largest number on record. After the afternoon advance 630 stocks closed higher than on Monday and 637 ended lower, while 132 showed no change. Only two stocks hit new highs for the year, both preferred stocks.
Most Trades Involved Small Blocks
In the history of the exchange, volume has topped six million shares only 51 times, three of them the last three trading sessions. Tuesday’s 14,750,000-share volume, like Monday's 9.350,000-share turnover, was made up of an extraordinarily large proportion of 100-share and 200-share purchases and sales, brokers reported.
The huge number of these relatively small blocks of stock swamped the stock exchange's reporting facilities. The high-speed quotation ticker, which prints 500 characters a minute, at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading was just printing trades that had been completed shortly after 1. p.m: And with the pile-up getting worse after that hour, the ticker didn't complete printing all the trades of the day until 8:15 p.m.
Even in the days before September I1930, when the old glass-domed tickers, which printed an average of 285 characters a minute. were in use, the tickers never took so long to finish recording any day’s transactions. On Oct. 29, 1929. the glass-domed ticker printed the last transaction at 5:29 p.m., two hours and 29 minutes after the market’s closing time then.
The long delay between the time a trade was made on the floor of the exchange and the report of the transaction on the stock exchange quotation ticker caused a great deal of confusion. The stock exchange prints what are called "flash” prices whenever the tape is five minutes or more late, giving up-to-the-minute prices for about 30 stocks, but aside from these few issues it was extremely difficult to find out which way, and how far, prices .were moving for most stocks.
Telephone Lines Clogged
Phone lines to brokerage houses and direct communication lines from firms to the exchange floor were frequently clogged because of the rush to place orders or find out what was happening to pHces. A phone operator at Harris, Upham & Co. said her switchboard had been lighted up “like a Christmas tree” all day Tuesday and was still busy at 6:30 p.m. ’
Particularly vexing to traders was being left in the dark about the execution ot orders they’d placed. Some brokerage firms with extensive branch office systems told their out-oftown offices not to expect reports Tuesday, one broker stated. There were numerous instances of buyers who placed orders on the basis of prices printed on the ticker, then over
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.