Abreast of the Market: A Stock Market Appraisal EDITED BY OLIVER J GINGOLD
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 18, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 23
Abreast of the Market
EDITED BY
J Stock Market Appraisal
Many traders are anticipating
Ouvn j gix'gold
Many traders are anticipating a sharp temporary rally as an aftermath to the series of weak sessions through which the market has gone. ___________
Nevertheless. several brokers ano
_	__ exe-
( uted large institutional buxmg orders the latter part of carry them of stock is ne was able to too»active stock
Issue* traded Advance* Decline* L nchaaged New high*. 1962 New low*. 19b2
DOW-JOVES
Thur
1 317
IM
965
16b
1
•76
Ued
1.316
19b
935
IBS
3
176
Frt
1.230
543
454
233
6
14
AGES
Mon
1 _2b4
305
766
193
5
week said they were able to so easily as to suggest a lot 1 available tor sale One said ( fill a sizable order in a not- . ........ without bidding the price up . Another reported he knows of much stock for sale, at prices just a little higber than present levels, in issues normally quite active.
An institution’s portfolio with assets of more than $300 million said it has made practically no changes in its list of stocks. The manager of this fund explained that “we have had many of our blue chips for over a quarter century', and if we sold them the taxes would be enormous Besides, they're stocks we want to keep ” The prices at which the fund bought its stocks are illustrated by these examples: Du Font at $7 a share, compared with about $180 now; American Telephone at $37, compared with over $100 now; IBM at $36, compared with more than $300; and Royal Dutch at $9. against about $35 The fund probably will buy some additional shares in coming weeks.
The manager of this fund and managers of other big portfolios predicted that in the near future there will probably be the “spill-over’' that normally follows drastic declines. In such times many individual stocks fall below reasonable values, even though the market averages may stabilize. At the moment, these professional investors said, many stocks are already on the way to selling below real values, even considering the possibility of extremely bearish news to come.
There was some institutional buying last week, but It was in limited amounts. Most important institutional portfolios have put their accumulating cash balances into Government securities pending what one manager called “a better market."
International oil stocks are a favored group among buyers. One portfolio has purchased 75,000 shares of Royal Dutch in the last four weeks. The stock is selling below 10 times annual earnings. Standard Oil (New Jersey) is another favored stock; it has held up well in the avalanche of selling—and is at a price a bit higher than at the beginning ot the year. Its dividend also has been raised.
More short selling in small lots has taken place in the past week or so than in many years. Small investors have been "selling against the box.” that is. borrowing stock to sell 4t, in the hope of buying it back cheaper to return the borrowed stock, even though they own the same amount of the same stock outright. One brokerage house said it had some 20 instances ot that kind of selling.
According to such brokers, one of the outlets tor such short sales has been IBM stock. One broker said that it these shorts should panic and cover in a rush, an advance ot "astronomical" proportions might take place. The effects of the market decline on consumer buying are still negligible, merchants said, with their sales continuing at or close to record highs. However, some luxury business has felt the effects. The "new poor,” people who lost a lot of money on paper but are still getting the same big dividends as betore, are canceling travel plans abroad and in this country; and luxury stores also said a’tew orders have been canceled.
As to other kinds of business news, the market v-nn’t helped last week by price cutting in drugs and steel. The Street expects more such news, which might bring new selling in some stocks or dampen any rallies in stocks.
Nor did the Street like the news of the indictment ot producers of salad oils and shortening on charges of restricting competition in the West. The Street thought this indicated the busy Department of Justice is still trying to ferret out cases against branches of industry. Brokers also said confidence in the possibility of the Administration and businessmen reaching an understanding is low.* One commented that even when the heads of Government departments keep quiet, minor officials "keep shooting out ideas that are anything but encouraging."
Analysts also said the Street is closely watching the Administration's attitude toward labor. They expect labor news will be an important market factor for months to come.
Pessimism pervades the Street. One leading bear said that "if the bulls could produce a single reason why we should buy stocks now —except for a technical rally—I would cheerfully cover the stocks I've sold short." Yet business news generally continues strong, in spite of the tew small cracks showing up in the economy. But one broker expressed the general sentiment by saying, “You can’t have billions lopped off. securities values without ultimately affecting every other Important sector of the economy.”
Last Week’* Markets—
Last week was another wild week on the New York Stock Exchange. Stock prices were sharply lower the first four days on the week.
last out still
IM < 5TB IB - IS 121 IB - 2 1US IZ - II vieid* last ' follow *
Industrial* Railroad* I QliUe*
Dividend
averages were
5 73' r UUlitie* 3 7(T6
an<e* I9bl Ch*njt«
. • 69 <	6115	SO	5 77	0 13 -
i	2 [O'-	140	64	0	Bl	0 57 '
- 1 72«*	112	60	0	39	-0 34^.
■ek on tbe stock* used in Industrial* 4 OS'-*. Railroads
and the Dow-Jones industrial average Thursday closed at its lowest point in three and a half years On Friday, prices rallied strongly.
For the week the Dow-Jones industrial average declined 23 43 points, of 3 89';. to close Friday at 578 18 The railroad average last week dropped 5 04 points or 3 98'<. to 121 48. and the utility average fell 4 53 points, or 3 98',. to 109 42.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange increased every day last week, real hing 7,128 -710 shales Friday, the fourth most active day of the year. For the week volume totaled 26.770,685 shares, up from 21.041.630 the preced lng week and 16.320,338 a year earlier.
In Friday’s advance the market recovered about 40', of its drop ot the preceding four days, almost all the rally occurred in the final hour and a half of trading for the week. The stocks that had been the weakest on the way down made the biggest gains. International Business Machines, for example, rose 27'j points ro 333'j, while Polaroid jumped 14 to 98. Xerox climbed 91? to 100S; and Litton. Industries rose 9% to 87’3.
Two factors helping push prices up Friday, brokers said, were increased stock purchases by investment companies and pension fund managers and by traders who had previously sold borrowed stock and who were “covering" these "short sales."
Volume continued heavy on the Pacific Coast Stock Exchange after the close in New York, and prices moved higher.
Heard on the Street—
General Battery A Ceramic Corp, makes its bow this morning on the American Stock Exchange, labeled GBY. . . . The New York Stock Exchange has tentatively set July 16 as the date to admit Witco Chemical Co. to Big Board transactions. No symbol has been decided upon. . . . Moog Servocontrols (over the counter) has booked a $1.1 million order from Ling-Temco-Vought for flight control components for the Minuteman ballistic miasile. Moog. which produces missile and aircraft components, had sales of $10.2 million and net of 59 cents a common share in the fiscal nine months ended March 31. . . . Personal Property Leasing (over the counter) is believed to have had a profit in the first fiscal six months, ended April 30. of just under $80,000, or 22 cents a share, up from $52,000 or 14 cents a share, in the year-earlier period, Theodore O, McClurg, president, says. He predicts second half net will more than double that of the first six months. The lessor of general equipment . reported fiscal 1961 earnings of $118,000, or 32 i cents a share. . . . New England Merchants
National Bank of Boston (over the counteri says. “We have some loans secured by stocks as collateral and as the market declined, we have been forced to call some of them." It ' adds. “Almost invariably borrowers put up more securities instead of paying off. They , aren't making any attempt to pay off because [ they are confident the market will go up again."
' Market View*—
OPINION: Arthur Wiesenberger & Co. looks for "a continuing period of wide-swinging prices that should afford a full measure of investment opportunities on both sides of the market.” ... In the opinion of Robert H. Clayton, Jr., of Orvis Brothers & Co.. "It will take another couple of months' to determine the extent to which the stock market’s weakness will affect business and consumer spending.” . . . William R. White of Hornblower A Weeks: "Veteran observers who long ago learned that nearly unanimous market opinions usually are wrong wonder whether pessimism may not have been overdone.” . . . Parker, Ford A Co., Dallas, counsels: "Assess once again your investment goals and ruthlessly weed out the weak situations to concentrate on the strong."
ANALYSIS: Fairchild Camera has been reviewed by William Kabbasb of John Schuss A Co. . . . Lawrence Lewis of Pershing A Co. has discussed. Gulf Oil. . . . Johnson, Lane, Space A Co., Columbus, Ga., has an analysis of Security Life Insurance. . . . Reynolds A Co. has commented on Pioneer Finance. . . . J. R. Williston A Beane has analyzed American Express. . . . A. C. Allyn A Co., Chicago, has a report on Pacific Power A Light. . . .A. G. Becker A Co. has analyzed E. R. Moore. . . . Carreau A Co. has a review ot Babcock A Wilcox. . . . Associated Truck Lines has been analyzed by Moreland A Co., Detroit. . . . Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades A Co. has comment on The Unilever Group, Anheuser-Busch, Hammermill Paper, Inspiration Consolidation Copper and Lane-Bryant.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.