Stocks &amp; Confidence: Soaring Market Eases Fear of Business Drop, ... A WALL STREET JOURNAL News Roundup
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 27, 1963; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Soaring- Market Eases Fear of Business Drop, Say Firms. Analysts
Many Say Rise Shows Faith In Johnson; but Some Wary Of New Stock Price Gains
Spur to Consumer Spending?
A \\ all Street J«>l rnal Neu » Roundup
The surprisingly strong performance of the stock market yesterday, which caused the Dow-Jones industrial average to register its largest rise for any single day in history, should go a long way to dispel and fears consumers and businessmen may have had about the impact of President Kennedy’s assassmation on the economy.
That is the opinion of most economists, stock brokers, business executives and others interviewed around the country These sources attribute the sharp rebound in stock prices to confidence in business prospects and in President Johnson’s attitude toward business, as well as to the removal of uncertainties about the continuity of Government that had developed on Friday with the news of the shooting of Mr. Kennedy.
Over the weekend and Monday investors had the chance to witness the orderly change in Administrations in Washington, with President Johnson pledging to continue the basic domestic and foreign policies of his slain predecessor. Moreover, many brokerage firms were busy sending to their clients warnings against panic selling and giving reassurances that economic prospects remain good.
Increase of 4.5%
Few expected, however, that the stock market Mould turn in such a substantial rise. At yesterday’s close of 743 52 the Dow-Jones average was up 32 03 points, or 4.5% from its close on Friday The most points the average had added previously in a single session was on Oct 30 1929 though the percentage gain of 12 31', at that time was greater than yesterday s The market’s advance yesterday exceeded b\ to ST point* its loss last Fndav before the New York Stock Exchange shut its doors early At its close yesterday the Dow-Jones compilation still was off from its record high of 760 50, set Oct. 29. (For details of yesterday’s stock market action, see story on page 3.)
Economists and business leaders are quick to note that they can not be sure what lies ahead for the economy and are even less certain what the stock market will do. One day’s rise in the market, no matter how broad and sharp, is no indication that its direction will remain upward, they emphasize. Some brokers, in fact, believe the market will turn in a mixed performance over the near term, with a decline of modest proportions probable * after yesterday's exuberance. But nearly everyone conceded that the strength of the market yesterday was unexpected and heartening.
Though institutional investors — insurance companies, pension funds, bank trust departments and mutual funds—were heavy buyers and thus a strong force behind yesterday’s market surge, brokers asserted that smaller investors’ purchases also exerted a major influence
“Uttle Man Coming Back”
"We’ve seen evidence today that the little man is definitely coming back into the market,” said Dean Guerin, vice president of Eppler, Guerin & Turner Inc., Dallas securities brokers. A part of the reason, he believes, is that the less affluent investor has more faith in the economic leadership of President Johnson than in that of the late President Kennedy.
The investment community was divided in its views on the near-term outlook for the market.
“It’s a good time to pause.” declares an official of Calvin Bullock. Ltd., manager of a number of mutual funds. ’’The Kennedy assassination throws in a negative here. Some people could hold up building plans. There might be a temporary pause (in the economy).”
But Investors Management Co continues fundamentally optimistic. “We believe the economy is strong and continue to have confidence in well selected equity securities,” says Robert H. Daniel, executive vice president. >
Discussing events of the last two market sessions, an official of Wellington Fund, a large Philadelphia-based mutual fund, said: “The values of stocks didn’t change, but. as a result of emotions, prices did. Now prices and emotions are back to where they were before events on Friday.” As a result, he added, Wellington Fund's portfolio managers have resumed their pre-Friday investment policies, which the official termed “conservative.”
“Selective Purchases” Planned
National Securities & Research, which manages mutual funds with assets in excess of $550 million and which was an active buyer of stocks yesterday morning, similarly plans to “stay put for the time being,” according to Lawrence Kahn, senior vice president for investments National Securities’ funds, Mr. Kahn adds, probably will continue “to make selective purchases as opportunities arise, but with prices generally where they are now. we’re not apt to repeat yesterday’s performance ”
Brokers and other professional investors observed that yesterday’s market surge swept away another recent worry in the financial community. This concern arose last week when some brokerage firms and banks notified credit buyers of stocks they would have to put up more cash or collateral or have their shares sold out. “The jump m prices has pretty much negated the necessity for sell-outs,” says George Weiss, a senior partner in Bache & Co., a large securities firm. “The higher prices,” Mr. Weiss adds, “as a matter of fact have added to credit customers’ buying power ”
A suggestion that yesterday’s strong stock market will shore up consumer confidence, and hence consumer readiness to spend, comes from Whitney Greene, economist for Koppers Co. “I thought it would take a while before people felt like coming downtown to shop.” he declares, recalling his view prior to yes-Please Turn to Page 6, Column *
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Stocks & Confidence: Firms Call Market Rise Good Sign for Economy
Continued From Page One terday's stock surge. “In the light of the stock market showing, however, I think I have to take back that prediction.’*
R. J. Morawetz, a vice president of Scripto. Inc., Atlanta, declares, “The guy who was going to buy a car or house or washing machine may have thought twice about it after the assassination, and the rally of the stock market may go part of the way toward erasing some of his doubts.”
Similar sentiments come from Robert W. Jackson, president of Aldens, Inc., a large retailing concern. “There’s no doubt in my mind but that the stock market surge will erase the lull in consumer buying that we had expected; the market climb is a message to consumers that everything will be all right.”
R G Trevorrow. president of Pacific Cement & Aggregates. Inc., adds, “All of us look at the stock market as an indicator of the soundness of the economy and I’m sure people generally are more confident now.”
The stock market surge also will bolster business spending and other activity that might otherwise have been postponed or canceled. most executives and economists predict.
“If business confidence was wavering at all, the market’s remarkable performance should certainly provide a shot in the arm,” says an economist of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co., New York, “I don’t feel a period of business hesitation is nearly as likely now as I did before the stock market performance.”
Kenneth Kroehler, president of Kroehler Manufacturing Co., a large furniture maker, says, “We were afraid of a setback from the assassination, but in view of the market climb we see no reason to rescind our order of early last week for our plants to go into overtime production for winter sales.”
Not all observers, of course, feel the stock market surge will measurably lessen the economic shock of Mr. Kennedy’s sudden death.
“I still expect a period of lull in the economy reflecting the shock of the assassination,” says William F. Butler, economist of Chase Manhattan Bank, New York. “The market climb may shorten the lull, however; If the market had gone the other way, then the adverse impact of the assassination surely would have been compounded ”
L>. Merle Hostetler, economist of Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, doubts the sharp market rise will do much to bolster consumer confidence. “I would question whether the average consumer pays sufficient attention to the market to gauge his buying by it.” he declares. He recalls that consumer spending declined “very little” during the major stock market slide early last year, after the late President’s price dispute with steel executives.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.