Johnson Move Brings Heavy Stock BuyingBy Institutions; Small Investor Is Cautious Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 2, 1968;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Johnson Move Brings Heavy Stock Buying By Institutions; Small Investor Is Cautious
and “-do-not-choose-lo-run”
small investor is a heavy headlines appear favorable.
A Wall. Street Jocrnal Xru-J Roundup
In the year of surprises, chalk up one more.
While institutional investors were buying heavily in the stock market yesterday, the man-on-the-street generally was acting cautiously on the news of President Johnson's peace overtures statement.
Typically, the buyer when the
while the institutions usually move to the sidelines to await more sober appraisals of events.
This dramatic reversal of roles came as stock market volume reached a record (see story p. 33 > and the Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 20.58 points, the biggest singlesession advance since it gained 32.03 points Nov. 26, 1963, the day of the market reopening, following President Kennedy’s funeral. Ironically, that day has come to be known as “the beginning of the Johnson bull market.”
But, says Mark Edersheim, a senior partner of Burnham & Co., New York: "Institutional investors were big buyers today—especially European institutions. We've never seen anything like it. All our salesmen were scared to death that the market would drop after the big rise this morning.”
So, apparently, were boardroom watchers across the nation. This partly reflected a deep-seated skepticism about President Johnson’s personal political intentions. “I won’t breathe until January when I’m sure Johnson is out of the White House,” said a retired insurance consultant in the Chicago office of Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis. He adds that he doesn’t plan to buy or sell any stock either.
There was also considerable pessimism about President Johnson’s peace moves. Said a customer in the Detroit office of Goodbody & Co.: “I’ve seen so much of this peace thing it doesn’t excite me any more. I should sell now while my stock is up, but what’s the use? I’d only invest it again, then when this peace hope dies down, I’d be right back where I started.” Attorney Anticipates Escalation
Some of the strongest sentiments came from a Chicago attorney, who says he’s seriously considering "selling across the board” in anticipation of a step-up in the Vietnam war. He reasons that President Johnson is operating on a “heads I won, tails you lose basis.” If Hanoi doesn’t accept the peace-feeler, his theory runs, "Johnson will go to Congress and ask for a declaration of war and bomb the hell out of North Vietnam.”
If this is the case, he adds, “it would be difficult for the Democratic Party not to draft
Johnson or for the country not to reelect him. It was a clever, political manuever.”
Not all investors, of course, attributed much Machiavellian motives to the President. Indeed, some investors were positively euphoric about Sunday’s development. “Everything will go up,” exclaimed Harlan Hunter, a 42-year-old produce wholesaler at a Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. office in Los Angeles. “This is the greatest thing for the small investor that ever happened.” Mr. Hunter said he was placing buy orders “for more of every stock I hold.”
And in Pittsburgh, two Army officers, Maj. John A. Danzilli and Maj. Harm J. Stryker, were taking time off from their duties to pay a visit to their broker. “We’re buying, man,” said Maj. Danzilli. Normally, he asserts, the market should drop “on the basis of a Presidential announcement like this one,” but the bombing pause coupled with “efforts to strengthen the dollar” have pushed the market up. The duo said they are considering buying shares in Avnet Corp., a diversified manufacturer with interests in the computer field, and Potter Instruments Inc.
Those investors who interpreted the President’s moves as bullish, however, generally were unable to agree on the exact reasons. Cause of Market Activity
Bruce Sutton, a 28-year-old Los Angeles advertising man in the Merrill Lynch boardroom, believes President Johnson’s decision to bow out, not the bombing pause, is the reason for all the activity. “There are peace offers every other day,” he asserts. “That’s nothing new. My hopes are up because LBJ is getting out of the way. That has more long-term promise and significance.”
On the other hand, Jon Johnston, a philosophy professor at Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, believes that the announcement of the bombing pause was the paramount factor in the market’s sharp rise. "Clearly, the market showed it wants peace very badly,” he says. “If we can see real peace developing, then a genuine bull market is a real possibility. This is certainly more important to the market than whether Johnson runs again or not.”
Professor Johnston said his investment position has been mostly cash for several months and he’ll wait “a few days at least” before moving into the stock market.
Many small investors were taking advantage of yesterday's upbeat on the market to take profits in stocks they held or to switch into other issues. Peter Gaillard, a broker at a Merrill Lynch office in Manhattan’s financial district, reports that in the first hour of trading he received 15 calls from customers, up sharply from the usual four or five. "People are getting out of many situations but they’re also doing a lot of buying, going after some of the old high-flyers,” he says.
The boardroom scene varied sharply from office to office. At the boardroom where Mr. Gaillard worked, for example, there was relative calm except for a steady influx of phone calls. Ordinarily, big volume and sharp price swings mean crowded boardrooms as people come in off the street to see what’s going on.
In Detroit, on the other hand, tape-watchers jammed into boardrooms as the market opened. Early in the day a salesman at Hornblower & Weeks-Hemphill, Nayes threw up his hands in despair: "This place is an insane asylum,” he wailed.
Selling Prevails Among Small Investors
By and large, small investors asserted they were in a selling mood. A Birmingham housewife, for example, reported unloading her holdings in both Lamson & Sessions Co. and United Fruit Co. "because I had a good profit in both and it seemed like a good time to sell this morning with the market so much higher.” She added: "I’m not convinced the peace effort wil make a real bull market.”
Most customers reflected a wait-and-see attitude. Nat H. Rudd, a Chicago real estate developer, believes the market surge “is just a flurry." Like others, Mr. Rudd fears a depressing effect on stock prices if Hanoi turns thumbs down on President Johnson’s peace-feeler—and he thinks this is a likely event. “Hanoi must figure we’re losing the war, so why should they negotiate?” he asks.
Fred Brunswig, a 54-year-oId San Francisco service station owner, believes the President’s decision not to seek reelection “is a grandstand play—I think a lot of people think that.” Mr. Brunswig says he had planned to buy oceanography stock yesterday but after the President’s announcement was hesitant. “It's a bear trap now,” he asserts while watching Walston & Co.’s board on Montgomery Street.
And H. R. Sage, retired president of a Philadelphia rendering company, said he was selling across the board “when the market is up like this.” He says he’ll buy it back again when the prices fall. He attributed the heavy volume solely to President Johnson’s decision not to seek reelection. “I think he just came to the same conclusion that the rest of us have reached—that the country is better off without him," Mr. Sage says.
Others were sitting out the trading session entirely, however. Nancy Pearson, a chemist with Philadelphia’s Franklin Institute, said "I know nothing about Vietnam but I'm terribly disappointed that Johnson is quitting, because I sure don't like Bobby Kennedy.” Miss Pearson, ' intently scanning the board at Walston & Co.'s offices, said she wasn’t planning to sell or buy. Rather, she was happily watching the rising prices. “It will take a month of days like this to bail me out, I’m so fax in the red,” she lamented.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.