Stock Prices Surge in Heavy Trading; Takeover Bids, Prime Rate Cuts Cited
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 13, 1981;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 3	•
Stock Prices Surge in Heavy Trading;
Takeover Bids, Prime Rate Cuts Cited
Hy u Wai i S i hi i- i Ji>i ham SIU 1f Ri p»rtt r NEW YORK—Takeovei fever .mil .1 fall mg prime late combined yesterday to piopel tile stock market sharply and bio.idlv higher
The Dow Jones nidustiial avei.ige jumped 22.13 points, its biggest gain in almost a year, on volume of neailv million shares
‘The recent meiget announcements were a majoi force m the market s advance because the premiums being offeied highlight the value of the marked as a whole." said Alfred W Harris Jr., reseau h dnector at Stifel. Nicolaus 4.- Co.. St L/niis.
Another factoi th.it helped fuel the advance was the fact til.it on Wednesday the industrial average 'successfully tested the* 9(>0 area and headed up again, said Fred W Lange, a consultant to Cohn. Hoc kstin Co "President Reagan's tax-cut program seems to be m excellent shape as it gains more Democratic support and apparently will be enacted to a large degree- "
Robert H. Stovall, market strategist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., contended that "inflation expectations are being diminished by the fall in commodity prices, tilt- decline in interest rates and a strong dollar.' He also cited the number of issues that scoied new highs recently, even on dull days when the market was retreating, and "the lack of impact of the recent bearish predictions." He expects the industrial average today to make a run at the 1U00 level "
Yet some market watchers remained cautious. Charles M. LaLoggia. a Rochester. N Y.. investment adviser asserted that while a short-term rally is possible. I remain genet ally bearish for the market in l'lsl. number of market leaders, most notably some of the oil and computer issues, appeal to have- sketched out top formations on the charts." Last Friday, investment advisor Joseph Gianvdle said that the current month would see a "March massacre."
Henry T Blackstock of Blackstock 4.- Co., Jacksonville, Fla., noted that many portfolio managers had been waiting "for current uncertainties to he resolved before initiating buying programs.' But he contended that 'this is d.'ingeious strategy for those who control substantial amounts of money, as current large cash reserves and high short interest present the potential for an explosive upside reversal when tlu- short-term negatives are resolved,"
Othei analysts were hopeful that recent administration and Federal Reserve Board statements arc- indicative' of a desire to lower inflation by reducing the growth in money supply H. Erich Heinemann, economist with Morgan. Stanley & Co., said the "short-run rate of increase* in the money supply aveiaged fi.b.T ’< during the past five months or so. down sharply from the 1S.9-TJ late of gain in the third quarter of last year -when the seeds of the present money crunch were* planted ”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.