Big Withdrawals From Money Funds Viewed As Likely in Wake of Decline in Interest Rates
By DAVID J. BLUM
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 24, 1982;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 53	.	*
Withdrawals From Money Funds Viewed likely in Wake of Decline in Interest Rates
By David J. Blum
Anyone who wants to track investor reaction to the recent drop in interest rates should keep an eye on that big pile of money—more than $230 billion at last count—in the nation's 242 money-market funds.
Lots of that money could move elsewhere at a moment's notice, and many experts now believe at least a healthy chunk will. The reason they give is that money funds ballooned in size as interest rates were rising; now that those rates have begun to slide, they say, investors will soon figure out that their money could be getting a better return from other investments.
It might be difficult for the average investor to imagine that an entire industry— whose assets are more than double the federal deficit— could change drastically just because of a drop of a few percentage points in interest rates. But a
Heard on Hie Street
change in rates is exactly how the industry began only a few years ago, when the funds offered investors a chance to earn high yields—along with benefits of liquidity—that significantly exceeded what they could be earning in the stock markets.
Now some fund watchers estimate that $50 billion or more will soon leave the funds, headed back into investments they came from. They include the stock market, which just completed the biggest-volume week in its history and yesterday got a running start toward a new record. And there are such investments as Treasury bills and bank certificates; what these lack in liquidity they make up for In long-term yields.
As a result, once-confident fund managers now sound a bit glummer about the future of the money fund industry. “There will definitely be a runoff,” said the manager of a New York-based money fund with assets of over $10 billion. But he and others argue that even a big investor departure wouldn't bring the funds' total assets below $150 billion, and that they thus would remain a relatively thriving business.
Nevertheless, it would bring a halt to the once-explosive growth of the funds, which continued even into last week's asset figures. As interest rates decline, the yields of money funds lag behind other investments because of the length of maturities in the funds' portfolios; last week's assets rose $3.43 billion, and it's conceivable
that this week's asset figures, to be released on Thursday, will still reflect that lag. and show further asset growth.
But this week’s numbers will also show the first effects of last week’s stock market rally, which some believe was paid for in big part out of the money funds. The figures released last Thursday didn't include that money, because it takes at least a few days for money fund checks to clear—especially at a time of heavy checkwnting.
Some optimists in the money-fund industry are banking on the naivete of money-fund investors to keep assets from shrinking, at least in the short run. “I think a lot of people saw the pictures of the floor of the stock exchange, and they know interest rates are dropping, but they haven’t related it to their money in the funds,” said Joseph DiMartino, president of Dreyfus Liquid Assets, a major fund. “People get used to their investments, and they don't like to change as soon as something happens," he adds.
Mr. DiMartino and others caution that interest rates have declined before, only to swing back up and leave many investors burned. Money funds themselves can similarly suffer if they fear further rate drops and lock in current rates by extending maturities. If rates were to shoot back up quickly, investors might move to other investments, leaving the funds to sell off securities to pay for withdrawals, possibly at a loss.
At the moment, however, most industry watchers concede that the outlook for lower interest rates will finally pull money fund yields back down to or near the level of other investments. As of last Thursday, according to the Money Fund Report, an industry newsletter, the average seven-day yield for the funds dropped to 11.38% from 11.52%, while the average 30-day yield declined to 11.85% from 12.23%. That puts the funds' yields almost equal to other investment, tools; for example, six-month certificates at banks are yielding almost 11%.
When the funds’ yields reach single digits, it’s likely that even the least-sophisticated money fund investors will consider switching. People who turned to the money funds for a 15% yield with little risk—instead of the higher risks associated with the stock market—will begin to buy stocks, especially if the market continues to rise. Other investments, such as Treasury bills, might also gain in appeal: If their yields are the same or close to money funds, they might be preferable to investors whose biggest concern is safety. Money funds assets aren't insured, while bank certificates are, up to $100,000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.