OPEC Disunity Cited in Stock-Price Slide As Investors Expect Oil Quotes to Decline
By GARY PUTKA Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 25, 1983;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
OPEC Disunity Cited in Stock-Price Slide As Investors Expect Oil Quotes to Decline
Bv OAKY Pl Th A
StafJ Reporter t>! 1 nt- Waii Siiih i Julhnai
rne slock market took a beating yesterday on fears that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries won't be able to maintain the price of crude oil in world markets. Stock prices also were buffeted by fears of rises In Interest rates, even though prices in the credit markets dropped only slightly.
After dropping as low as 1023.45 at one point yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 1030.17. off 22.81 points. Prices of bellwether 30-year Treasury bonds dropped less than S4 for every $1,000 face value, despite fears of new interest rate pressures from a government bond refinancing to be announced tomorrow.
Also reacting to the OPEC confusion, the British pound fell to a record low against the U.S. dollar and London stock prices also slumped. Analysts said the cartel's Inability to stabilize oil prices would lead to declining prices for Britain's North Sea oil.
Nearly everything traded In U.S. markets yesterday came under price pressure. Gold fell on fears of higher Interest rates, while interest-rate, stock-index and many grain and livestock futures also lost ground.
Higher Interest rates Increase the costs of financing futures positions, while providing Investors with higher returns in Instruments that compete with commodity futures for Investors' dollars.
Traders said that the rout in stocks was clearly related to news that the OPEC meeting In Geneva failed to agree on pricing or production, eliciting fears that the cartel might be In disarray. It was one of the oddest turnabouts in Wall Street's energy outlook since the Arab oil embargo in 1973. which ushered In :i long period of fears that OPEC would raise energy prices and thus add to Inflation that was destabilizing the Western economies.
Oil Issues went into a broad retreat, which carried the rest of the market along with them. Big losers Included Exxon Corp., Mobil Corp., Standard Oil Co. (Indiana), Atlantic Richfield Co.. Getty Oil Co., Superior Oil Co. and Standard Oil Co. of California.
“With the breakup of the OPEC meeting, there are fears of instability in oil prices, fears for the profitability of oil companies themselves, and fears for the stability of the financial system," said Peter Carman, chief investment officer at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. American and other Western banks have loans out to many oil-producing nations, as well as to many smaller oil companies who stand to suffer from falling prices, Mr. Carman noted.
The market also was hurt by predictions from a widely watched market analyst that the advance in equities since August was overextended. The analyst, Robert Farrell of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., Friday Issued a list of about 25 Issues whose market prices he believes to be ahead of their fundamental prospects. Many of these stocks, Including Zayre Corp., Ryan Homes Inc. and Wang Laboratories Inc. also lost ground yesterday.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange reached 90,800,000 shares, small in comparison to some of the most volatile days of recent months, but the highest in eight sessions.
Other conditions that may have contributed to yesterday's retreat were declining cash available for Investment In the portfolios ot large Institutions, a large proportion of Investment advisers who have already done their buying and extended ratios of stock prices to earnings.
As of last Friday, the average cash position In the equity accounts of Institutions was W.7%, down significantly from the levels before the summer rally, according to a sampling by Jndata Services Co., of Southport, Conn.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.