Industrials Plunge a Record 86.61 On the Most Active Trading Ever By Beatrice E. Garcia
Wall Street Journal; Sep 12, 1986; ProQuest pg. 1
Industrials Plunge a Record 86.61 On the Most Active Trading Ever
ABREAST OF THE MARKET
By Beatrice E. Garcia
The market’s histone slide yesterday was exaggerated by computerized hedging and arbitrage against stock-index futures, but there was plenty of plain dumping as well.
Traders said many institutional investors were selling stocks yesterday as concern rose about higher interest rates and possibly a stronger rate of inflation ahead.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled a record 86.61 points to 1792.89, a 4.61% decline. Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 11.88 to 235.18, off 4.81%, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index dropped 6.37 to 135.25, down 4.51%.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average also plunged by a record 33.63 points to 749.00, down 4.3%.
It was the busiest session m the history of the Big Board, with more than 237.5 million shares traded, up from 140.3 million shares Wednesday. The previous record was 236 6 million shares, set on Aug. 3, 1984.
The rout wasn’t limited to the blue chips.
In the over-the-counter market, the Nasdaq OTC composite index fell 13.46-a record decline—to 353.34 as volume expanded to 138.1 million shares from 115.5 million shares Wednesday. There were 322 issues advancing and 2,340 declining The American Stock Exchange's Market Value Index lost 10.01 to 260 32.
A plunge this big "really shakes up the little guy,” said Robert Stovall, president of Stovall/Twenty-First Advisers in New York. “This will make investors more reluctant to buy stocks on their own and could lead to further institutionalization of the stock market.”
Yesterday’s decline left few issues untouched. Of the 65 stocks in the three Dow Jones averages, none advanced; 63 declined and two were unchanged. On the Big Board, there were 1,695 losers and 168 gainers
“These are the most violent selling climax figures I have ever seen,” said Ralph Bloch, a technical analyst with Moseley Securities in Chicago. Such severe drops usually lead to a quick rebound and then another drop, he said. But unless subsequent declines are made with fewer issues declining and fewer issues making new lows, “new highs are out of the question for a long time.”
The massive sell-off in both the stock and index-futures markets was triggered initially by plunging bond futures prices, which fell on fears of renewed inflation and of higher-than-expected retail sales and producer pnce data, which are to be released today. Bond futures open for trading at 8:30 a.m. EDT, one hour before stock-index futures and the stock market.
Depressed futures prices set off waves of stock selling by securities firms and institutional investors The securities firms were selling stocks and buying back futures contracts that they had sold earlier, unwinding positions that they might otherwise have left to expire next Friday.
As stock prices crumbled dunng the session, there was additional selling of
stock-index futures by money managers wishing to hedge their portfolios for further price declines. Some traders said that because prices of index futures were so depressed yesterday, many money managers might have put off their selling—for hedging purposes-until today.
Although Micheal Creem, a principal with the Big Board specialist firm of Creem & Creem, spent an intense day on the floor yesterday, he asserted that yesterday's decline “wasn’t a calamity, it was just a correction.”
Among the few gainers was E.F. Hutton, which jumped 4% to 45 with 857,100 shares traded. Market sources said the stock moved up on takeover speculation.
Other brokerage firm stocks were mostly lower: Merrill Lynch fell % to 3614; Morgan Stanley dropped 214 to 68%; Salomon Brothers declined 2 to 40%; First Boston tumbled 214 to 46%; but PaineWebber rose % to 29
People Express rose 14 to 3% on 896,000 shares in the over-the-counter market. A story in Wednesday’s Wall Street Journal said the discount air carrier is once again seeking a buyer or partner to avert a cash crisis
USX eased % to 20% on more than five million shares, making it the most active Big Board stock. The heavy volume, traders said, came from arbitragers, who are anticipating a move by Australian investor Robert Holmes a Court to acquire USX.
“It has to be speculators who are trying to be ahead of the deal,” said Oppenheimer & Co. steel analyst John Tumazos, who also speculated that some portfolio managers used yesterday’s falling market to rotate their portfolios into takeover targets or deal stocks.
Texas Air, discussed as a potential buyer for People Express, fell 1% to 27%.
Armco moved up 1 to 6% in active trading. The company agreed to settle the strike at its Middletown, Ohio, plant, which Armco had earlier believed might force it to file for bankruptcy court protection.
CBS closed down 5% to 134% after trading as low as 129%. The stock’s opening was delayed yesterday as the market digested the news of the management upheaval at the broadcaster. Laurence Tisch, chairman of Loews, which owns nearly 25% of CBS, has been left effectively in control of the company after its chairman. Thomas Wyman, was forced to resign after his plan to sell the company was defeated by the board. Arbitragers said the reorganization takes much of the takeover speculation out of the stock
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.