Stock Prices Jump for Second Day As Market Seeks Any Good News: ABREAST OF THE MARK
Sease, Douglas R
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 9, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 75
Stock Prices Jump for Second Day As Market Seeks Anv Good News
ABREAST OF THE MARKET
By Douglas R. Sease
A late rally sent stock prices climbing on moderately heavy volume.
After idling along marginally highet most of the day. the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 56.20 at 1868.37. Volume totaled 227.3 million shares, up from 146.7 million Monday. Advancing issues outpaced losers by more than 2 to 1. The Dow Jones industrials outpaced broader market indices.
Traders said the late afternoon rally wasn't the result of any single piece of news. Thomas Ryan, a trader at Kidder Peabody, said futures-related buy programs played a part in the sharp rise as did an improved outlook for technology stocks and issues considered takeover candidates.
Competitors credited Joseph Feshbach, a technical analyst at Prudential-Bache. with at least some part of the rally. Mr. Feshbach said he told Prudential-Bache's retail sales staff that last week's drop of 143.74 points in the Dow Jones average was the bottom of the market and that stock prices are headed higher. "I'm pretty optimistic about the continuation of this rally." he said, adding that he expects cyclical stocks to lead the rally into next year.
"The market was ripe for a rally and was looking for any' piece of good news.” said Peter Glanville. director of research at Dain, Bosworth Inc. in Minneapolis. He said the two consecutive days of gains on the New York Stock Exchange may be setting the stage for a broader rally before vear-end.
Jack Solomon, a technical analyst at Bear Stearns, agreed that if stock prices remain in their current trading range through the middle of the month, a broader rally could develop.
“We're waiting for the trade numbers Thursday, we're waiting for the abatement of tax-related selling and we're waiting to see if last week's lows were really the test of the Oct. 19 lows or is another shoe waiting to fall," he said.
Despite the sharp gains yesterday, market professionals said investors remain nervous. The release tomorrow of the U.S. merchandise trade balance for October is one factor undermining investor confidence.
"It's a very hard number to predict and it's a number that has blockbuster potential," said John Connolly, a portfolio strategist at Dean Witter Reynolds. He said that while the consensus of forecasts is for a slight worsening of the deficit, his own firm is looking for a slight improvement based on readings of Japanese and German export statistics and the worse-than-expected results of the trade deficit in the past few months.
Year-end tax related selling has added some downward pressure to the market in recent weeks. Mr. Glanville of Dain Bosworth said his firm has seen considerable volume of tax-selling. Eric Miller, chief of the investment policy committee at Don
aldson Lufkin & Jenrette, said that while it's difficult to separate such sales from normal trading, "the lagging behavior of the OTC and Amex and the broad market is probably indicative that tax selling is going on.”
Technology stocks were among the leaders in yesterday's rally. Digital Equipment gained 6% to 124'4. Hewlett-Packard rose 3'% to 51 % after meeting with securities analysts, and International Business Machines was up 2 to 111'2. Xerox gained 1 to 53%. Motorola picked up IL to 44'i and Unisys rose 1 to 30%.
Cyclical stocks also performed well. Alcoa Aluminum rose 2% to 46'2; Reynolds Metals was up 2L to 44; Scott Paper gained 2% to 64L; International Paper was up 2 to 39%; USX rose 1 '2 to 29%: and Bethlehem Steel closed at 15's. up %. Dow Chemical added 1% to 77%; Du Pont gained 1% to 79; Phelps Dodge rose 2% to 44‘2; and Caterpillar closed at 57'4, up 1'2.
Holly Sugar rose 4% to 71'4. The company amended its agreement with Plum Associates providing for Plum to acquire the entire equity' interest in Holly. Atlas Corp, gained 5'i to 34% after a group including Blasius Industries Inc. said it had devised a restructuring plan for the company.
Trinity Industries rose 2% to 23% after a Merrill Lynch analyst reinstated a "buy" recommendation on the prospect of improving railroad equipment sales. Other transportation equipment stocks also gained. Eaton rose 4'2 to 76“4 and Cummins Engine gained 1 % to 44%.
Oil stocks were up. Yesterday’s Heard on the Street column reported that a new round of oil mergers may be near. Among the potential targets listed, Phillips Petroleum rose L to 11; Unocal gained 2 to 27%: Occidental Petroleum rose % to 24’4, and Amerada Hess gained ~s to 2.3‘,4.
Some of those companies also were listed as potential buyers. Other possible buyers include Mobil, up l'k to 36% and Exxon, up 2% to 39%.
Leading the most active list were three dividend capture issues: Pacific Gas & Electric fell % to 17'4 on volume of 47.1 million shares, McDermott International Inc. was off % to 15% on 15.2 million shares and New England Electric Systems gained '2 to 22:,i with 4.3 million shares traded.
Pfizer lost 1'2 to 44%. The company said fourth-quarter results will probably show a decline from a year earlier.
Constar International rose 1% to 14%. A Merrill Lynch securities analyst changed his rating of the company to above average from sell.
N.vnex Corp, fell L to 64 after Kidder Peabody removed the company from its selected stock list, replacing it with BellSouth. BellSouth gained % to 36%.
Federal Express lost Ilk to 39%. A Kidder Peabody analyst cut fiscal 1988 earnings estimates while maintaining a “strong buy" rating on the stock.
McGraw-Hill was off ‘4 to 49%. It agreed to buy an aerospace publishing group from a unit of Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.