Most Rates Post Further Drops, Boosting Stocks: But Declines Are ... TOM HERMAN Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 22, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
■Most Rates Post
Further Drops,
Boosting Stocks
But Declines Are Smaller,
Causing Some to Worry
Bonds’ Rally Is Waning
CREDIT
MARKETS
By Tom Herman
Staff Reporter of Tub Wall Stkekt Journal
NEW YORK-Most interest rates fell again yesterday, helping to fuel the stock market’s record surge.
But the rate declines were much smaller than earlier this week, and some investment managers fear the bond market's explosive rally in the past four sessions. may be running out of steam. Traders are bracing for a huge volume of Treasury borrowing to be announced next Wednesday. Also, skepticism remains about Washington's latest efforts to slash the budget deficit.
Prices of some actively traded Treasury bonds yesterday advanced about three-eighths of a point, or $3.75 for each $1,000 face amount. That was the fourth consecutive advance, bringing the total increase
Short-Term Interest Rates
(Weekly average)
Federal Funds
3-Month Commercial Paper
3-Month Treasury Bills
Source: Federal Renerve Bank of New York
since last Thursday to nearly seven points. During that period, the yield on the latest -30-year Treasury bond dropped sharply to j 9.46% from 10.23%.
; Much of the improvement in both the < stock and bond markets reflects a growing 1 belief that Federal Reserve officials are 1 easing credit in an effort to keep the economy from plunging into a deep slump in 1 the wake of Monday’s stock market ; crash.
i "People are feeling much better about i things. Al! the statements by administration and Federal Reserve officials trying to calm things down are working,” said Alfred G. Roth, a managing director at Thomson McKinnon Securities Inc.
Changed Landscape
■ For many money managers, the stock market crash Monday represents a historic event that completely changed the economic and financial landscape. For example, Stephen S. Smith, vice president at Provident Capital Management Inc. in Philadelphia, earlier this week abandoned his bearisli stance on the bond market and turned bullish.
“We did not anticipate the spectacular decline in the stock market, which in my estimate will change consumer sentiment and spending plans," Mr. Smith said. "The Fed will have to ease monetary policy."
At the end of last week, Mr. Smith was bearish on bonds "because I thought we were going into the typical late-cycle advances in economic activity where you get a rise in interest rates." After the stock market crashed Monday. "We went to a fully invested bond position," he said. “In a crisis of this magnitude, the Fed has no choice but to ease" credit.
Nevertheless, the Treasury's big borrowing plans, to be announced next week, could rattle the financial markets, traders say. Interest rates often surge shortly before Treasury financing operations.
Some economists worry that inflation pressures will re-emerge soon and that any interest rate declines will prove shortlived. "I don’t think we’ve seen the peak in interest rates." said Irwin L. Kellner, chief economist at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. “I think this (recent drop in rates) is just a temporary phenomenon because of the developments in the stock market. Once the dust settles, rates will go back up again."
Although congressional leaders and White House officials sound optimistic
about progress in cutting the budget, some analysts expect little. "I think people are misreading what we’re seeing out of Washington," says Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch. "A lot of people are assuming we’re going to get meaningful budget cuts, but I think it's not going to happen."
Still, several traders said they agree with remarks Tuesday by Donald Regan, the former White House chief of staff and Treasury secretary. Interviewed on “Before Hours,” a television news program produced by NBC News and The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Regan said Monday’s stock market disaster should help persuade central bankers to unite in pursuing policies designed to reduce interest rates.
"We’re like a person that’s had a heart attack," Mr. Regan said. “You’ve had a warning. You’ve survived it. Now you have to behave yourself or you have life-threatening things to face. I think what we have to face now is trying to preserve our economy. We’ve got to loosen money. We’ve got to keep interest rates down. We can’t afford to let them go up. That means we’re going to have to work on our twin deficits, both the budget deficit and our trade deficit."
Yesterday. Japan joined West Germany in signaling that it will comply with U.S. demands for an easier monetary policy.
U.S. officials confirmed only that this week’s agreement between the U.S. and West Germany, reached Monday by Treasury Secretary James Baker, committed Bonn to an easier monetary policy and lowered the officially supported range of dollar exchange rates against the mark.
The U.S.-German understanding modified portions of last February’s seven-nation Louvre agreement that involve West German monetary and currency matters. But there wasn’t any official indication that Japan made any new promises.
Nevertheless, the Bank of Japan yesterday pumped additional funds into Japan's short-term money market, where participants had worried rates might surge soon. The move came a day after the Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, lowered an important short-term interest rate to 3.80% from 3.85%.
Easing Credit
If the Fed and other central banks don’t act swiftly to ease credit, another 1929-style depression could occur, some analysts contend. Several economists say the Fed already appears to have loosened its credit grip in an effort to calm Wall Street. As evidence, they point to the recent sharp drop in the interest rate on federal funds, or reserves that banks lend each other overnight.
The federal funds rate, which is watched closely for signs of Fed policy changes, yesterday averaged 6.15%, according to an estimate by Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc. That was down from 7.07% Tuesday and 7.61% Monday.
But interpreting moves in the federal funds rate can be exceptionally tricky because of numerous technical crosscurrents in the money markets. For example, yes-
Please Turn to Page 18, Column 3 i
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Most Interest Rates Drop Again, But Some Fear Bond Rally Wanes
'	Continued From Page 3
terday was the final day of a two-week period in which banks must settle their reserve positions with the Federal Reserve. The funds rate often trades erratically on such days.
As bond prices have surged in recent days, several companies have rushed to is-
sue debt to take advantage of lower borrowing costs. Yesterday, more than $1 billion of new corporate issues hit the markets, and more are likely soon.
For example, Dow Jones & Co. tentatively is planning to sell $100 million of five-year notes soon through ah underwriting group led by Goldman, Sachs & Co. Kenneth L. Burenga, a senior vice president of Dow Jones, confirmed last night that Dow Jones is "exploring the issuance” of the notes but that “no final decision has been made.”
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.’s index of long-term Treasury bonds, which Tuesday registered its biggest one-day advance since it was started at the end of 1980, edged higher yesterday. The index, which jumped 46.44 points Tuesday, rose another 3.64 points yesterday to close at 1202.55. It ranged between 1179.02 and 1208.77.
Among actively traded issues, the Treasury's 8%% bonds due 2017 were quoted late yesterday at a price of 94 6/32, up from 93 26/32 late Tuesday and 8714/32 late last Thursday. The government’s 8?;% notes due 1997 climbed to 9514, up from 95 6/32 Tuesday and 90 3/32 last Thursday. The yield fell to 9.33% from 9.38% Tuesday and 10.24% last Thursday.
The Treasury sold $9.26 billion of new two-year notes at an average annual yield of 7.95%. That was down from 8.57% at the previous two-year note auction held Sept. 29 and was the lowest since 7.86% at the Aug. 26 auction.
But the volume of bids submitted yesterday was lower than at either of the two previous auctions of two-year notes. The Treasury received $22.92 billion of bids yesterday, down from $24.38 billion at the September sale of $9.26 billion of notes and $31.14 billion at the August sale of $9.81 billion of notes.
The rate on the latest three-month Treasury bills declined to 5.59% bid from 5.65% Tuesday and an average of 6.84% set at Monday’s auction. But the rate on the
latest six-month Treasury bills rose slightly to 6.25% bid from 6.20% Tuesday.
Here are details of the Treasury’s two-year note auction yesterday:
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows the investor's return while lower bidding widens It.
Applications ..........................
Accepted blds .........................
Accepted at low price .................
Accepted noncompetitivelv .............
Average price (Rate) ..................
High price (Rate) .....................
Low price (Rate) ......................
Interest rate .........................
$22,921,BOO,000 $9,255,330,000
B% $768,000,000 99.864(7.95%) 99.937(7.91%) 99.774(8.00%) 7'/s%
The notes are dated Nov. 2 and mature Oct. 31, 1989.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.