Stocks Plunge in Quiet Trading; Weakness in the Dollar Is Blamed: ABREAST OF THE MAR
Salwen, Kevin G
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 29, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 43	.
Stocks Plunge in Quiet Trading;
Weakness in the Dollar Is Blamed
ABREAST OF THE MARKET
By Kevin G. Salwen
Stock prices plunged in the first hour of trading yesterday on the dollar's drop and waves of program selling, then drifted for the rest of the session to close sharply lower.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 56.70 to 1942.97 as volume resumed the holiday pace of last Thursday. A total of 131.2 million shares changed hands, up from Thursday’s 10S.S million. Losers broadly outpaced winners, 1,392 to 283.
The volume figures were skewed by trading in Southern California Edison stock. The utility accounted for more than 10% of the New York Stock Exchange composite volume as many investors moved to capture the company’s rich dividend. The stock closed at 3074, down 14, on volume of more than 13 million shares.
Overall, the dollar was the story. “It looks like the dollar caught up with the stock market," said Marshall Acuff, portfolio strategist at Smith Barney, Harris llpham & Co., New York. “The urge to take profits probably has existed among traders and portfolio managers and the dollar’s weakness probably has provided the trigger for them."
The U.S. currency plummeted to postWorld War II lows against the Japanese yen and the West German mark before rebounding in afternoon New York trading.
Richard L. Sandor, senior vice president at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in Chicago, said the dollar's weakness in Tokyo trading last weekend spilled over to pessimism about stocks. “All you have to do is look at the dollar," he said. “It’s got people very scared."
The dollar's weakness before the stock market opened depressed the Major Market Index, an index of 20 large-capitalization stocks that starts trading at 9:15 a.m. EST. "The Major Market Index opened down the equivalent of about 40 points on the Dow. and the market kind of fulfilled it,” said Tom Gallagher, managing director of Oppenheimer & Co., New York.
The industrial index dropped about 33 points in the first 10 minutes of trading as computer programs sold the index's underlying stocks in droves.
Hugh A. Johnson, chief economist at First Albany Corp., Albany, N.Y., said program trading accelerated what might have been a more gradual decline in stock prices. “Program trading does tend to exaggerate what might have been a minor move in the market,” he said.
Mr. Johnson added that selling of poorperforming equities by some portfolio managers (a technique called window dressing), coupled with year-end tax selling by retail investors and overall concern about the economy helped drag stock prices down. "All of this reflects the itchiness of investors. Investors don't usually have good memories, but this time they do have good memories as a result of Oct. 19," he said.
Mr. Sandor agreed with Mr. Johnson’s assessment of investor nervousness. “I don’t like the market here,” he said. “I feel we have some tough sledding.”
Mr. Sandor asserted that investors are looking to Washington for help with the budget and trade deficits. “There's nothing interesting (in the market) other than the fact that we have a budget process that’s paralyzed and a dollar that continues to get hit.” he said. "All the other stuff is like getting on a scale and taking off your tie because you’re trying to shed some weight.”
But Smith Barney's Mr. Acuff remained more optimistic. "We're sort of getting a breather,” he contended. "Technically speaking, the reaction we see in the market right now is right what the doctor ordered. I would say this rally’s not over."
Mr. Acuff added that the surge in stock prices over the past three weeks encouraged some profit-taking. “I wouldn't be surprised to see some weakness early in the year and see a rally before the end of January,” he said, adding that he expects improved trade deficit numbers to bolster that upward move.
First Albany's Mr. Johnson also expects an early-year rally, possibly taking the Dow Jones industrial index as high as 2100. “But the outlook for 1988 remains not only uncertain but I’d say negative,” he said. “The trend should be downward from 2100 for at least the first half of 1988 to at least the levels of Oct. 19. I’m recommending that investors really take a safe or conservative approach to the market."
Oil stocks continued to be active as oil prices eased in a quiet crude market. Chevron fell 1% to 387's; Mobil slipped 1 to 38%; Exxon dropped 1:!4 to 38%; Texaco eased to 3774; Unocal lost 1% to 2914, and Atlantic Richfield fell 1% to 69%.
Technology stocks stumbled. International Business Machines dropped 4% to 11514 on volume of more than a million shares. Digital Equipment fell 4% to 133%; Control Data slipped 1% to 21%; Unisys lost 1% to 33. and Honeywell eased 214 to 5514.
But Computervision jumped 414 to 1314 on volume of more than 1.2 million shares after Prime Computer launched a $390 million hostile takeover bid for the maker of computerized design equipment. Computervision said it is considering the offer. Prime’s stock slid 74 to 14%.
Among other gainers, Catalyst Energy jumped 3 to 9% after a management group offered to acquire the company for $10 a share. Monarch Capital advanced 114 to 41; Diebold gained 1% to 3814, and Great Northern Iron rose 1 to 24 after declaring a dividend increase.
But the losers were far more pervasive in yesterday’s market. Merck, the big drug company and a component of the industrial average, fell 414 to 15614; Dow Chemical lost 3% to 8814; Pfizer, which last week was rumored as a takeover candidate, slid 3 to 4774, and CBS eased 314 to 15914.
Paper stocks also were hit hard. International Paper lost 1% to 42%; Champion International slid 1 to 3414; Kimberly-Clark fell 1 % to 49, and Mead eased 1 to 3314,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.