Many Reasons Are Cited as Stocks Fall, But Return of Program Trading ...
Crossen, Cynthia;SCOTT McMURRAY Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 10, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Many Reasons Are Cited as Stocks Fall, But Return of Program T rading Isn’t One
By Cynthia Crossen . And Scott McMurray
Staff Reporters of The Waix Street Journal
Unfettered program trading returned to the stock market yesterday and prices dropped sharply, but the two events weren’t closely related, stock and futures market professionals said.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day down 58.85 points, close to where it traded during much of the session, as New York Stock Exchange issues declining in price swamped gainers by a margin of about 3 to 1.
Most traders said program . trading wasn’t the culprit. Stock-index futures traders in Chicago said they saw a small amount of arbitrage-related program selling early in the day, but not enough to have a major impact on the market.
Jeffrey S. Tabak, a partner at Miller Tabak Hirsch & Co., said fundamental economic factors hurt the stock market yesterday much more than programs.
“People will look to blame program trading for the market being down today,” Mr. Tabak said. “But a lot of program traders are lying low, because they either got hurt or have decided the market is too volatile."
What did break yesterday’s market were concern about weakness in the dollar; related worries that bipartisan talks on cutting the budget deficit may be bogging down in Washington; and investor fears of any significant buying ahead of the government’s announcement of Sep-
The Market’s Gyrations
DJIA daily close
tember merchandise trade deficit figures. The figures are due to be released Thursday morning.	.
Amid a spreading conviction in currency markets that the U.S. won’t significantly support the dollar any time soon, the currency fell steadily to a post World War II-low against the West German mark and to a to-year low against Japan's yen. Meanwhile, both bond and most commod-
Please Turn to Page 24, Column 3
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Analysts Say Return Of Program Trading Didn’t Hurt Stocks
Continued From Page 3 ity prices were little changed in sluggish, trendless trading.
“Everything’s tied to the dollar,” one futures trader said. “We're just waiting to see what Uncle Sam will do to cut the deficit,” added another, who echoed widespread skepticism that the Washington talks will produce significant budget deficit cuts.
From Oct. 20, the day after the crash, until yesterday, the New York Stock Exchange had limited the use of its computerized system that had made program trading quick, efficient and relatively inexpensive. But the exchange allowed program traders unrestricted use of its so-called Designated Order Turnaround system throughout yesterday’s session.
The prospect of resumed stock index arbitrage frightened investors more than any other form of program trading yesterday. Under this technique, securities firms buy and sell baskets of stocks to capitalize on price gaps between the stocks and stock-index futures market.
In this strategy, when stock-index futures prices are at a steep enough discount to stock prices, arbitragers buy the contracts and sell baskets of the stocks making up the related indexes. Conversely, when futures prices move far enough ahead of stock prices, arbitragers sell the futures and buy baskets of stocks.
Accelerated Moves
The result has been to intensify, or accelerate both downward and upward stock price movements. Stock-index arbitrage was blamed by many for helping to accelerate losses during the Oct. 19 stock market collapse', when the industrial average plummeted 508.00 points. On the other hand, it also has helped exaggerate stock market rallies on a number of occasions during the past three years.
Only about 161 million shares were traded on the Big Board yesterday, another indication that program trading was limited. Although some firms said they had executed programs, most said that discounts of futures prices to stock prices seldom were wide enough to justify arbitrage trading.
“It has been a total nonevent,” said William J. Breck, executive vice president of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. “There was an opportunity (for arbitrage) this morning, but we sat it out and then there hasn't been much since.”
Jon Groveman, head equity trader at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Co., said the paucity of program trades yesterday suggested that traders are keeping their heads down while regulators study the possibility of imposing permanent restrictions on program trading. “I don’t think program traders want to be disruptive today because they’re under a microscope," said Mr. Groveman. “The market is acting exactly the same way it has been in the past two weeks.”
“We wouldn’t (avoid executing) a program for that reason," said Mr. Breck.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.