Dollar Stages Its Biggest Rally So Far in 1987: Technical Factors, ... CHARLES W. STEVENS Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 27, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg-3
Dollar Stages
: Its Biggest Rally
■ So Far in 1987
Technical Factors, Outlook For Venice Talks Cited; Stock, Bond Prices Leap
CURRENCY ___________MARKETS_______________ By Charles VI. Stevens
Staff Reporter of Tur. Wai J. Sthkkt Journal
The dollar staged its biggest one-day rally this year, propelling U.S. stock and bond prices sharply higher as well.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was up 2.2% against the Japanese currency to 144.03 yen from its close of 140.93 yen in Tokyo trading Monday. The dollar also jumped 1.8% to 1.8153 West German marks from 1.7836 in Monday Frankfurt trading.
The currency's strength and an easing of inflation fears buoyed stock markets, sent Treasury bond prices to their highest levels in almost two weeks and depressed
prices of precious metals and other commodities. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 54.74 points, its third largest point gain ever, to close at 2297.94 (see stories on pages 6T. 47 and 48).
Currency traders cited several factors in trying to explain the long-beleaguered dollar’s rebound. These included bullish technical factors, expectations for next month's economic summit and the Japanese government's recent attempts to intimidate potential dollar sellers. Whatever the initial motivation, however, traders said the rally fed on itself as market participants rushed to cover short, or oversold, dollar positions.
"The short covering drove it higher and higher. And the higher it went, the more demand was created," Charles A. Luma, vice president, foreign exchange, at Industrial Bank of Japan's New York branch, said.
Mr. Luma, like many traders, was quick to say that yesterday's move doesn't indicate a major reversal in the dollar's two-year decline, "It's a technical shakeout, not a fundamental turnaround.” he said.
■ ' The dollar’s rise yesterday began in active trading in Tokyo, where it crested well above 141 yen for the first time since April
23. For the many traders who rely on technical analysis of charts of the dollar’s trading patterns, that rise sounded a strong signal to buy.
Traders found another reason to buy dollars in their outlook for the Venice meeting of the U.S. and its six biggest economic allies, which starts June 8. When finance officials representing those countries. known as the Group of Seven, met in Paris in February, they agreed to take steps to stabilize the dollar. The group reiterated its commitment to stable exchange rates at an interim meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington in April.
So far this year, central banks of the seven nations-the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada— are believed to have spent at least $30 bil-Pleasc Turn to Page 20, Column i
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Dollar Rallies to Post Biggest Rise of Year; Stocks, Bonds Gain
Continued From Page 3 lion intervening in currency markets to support the dollar.
“There’s now a fairly consistent pattern of statements and actions from these (Group of Seven) meetings," James S. Vick, vice president and senior corporate trader at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.. New York, said.
Some traders were saying yesterday that Japan's recent pressure on financial institutions appears to be succeeding in altering the Tokyo market’s bearish psychology.
Japan wants to stem the dollar’s decline to avoid further harm to Japan's export industries and Japanese investors in U.S. bonds and stocks. A weaker U.S. currency makes Japanese products more expensive for Americans and creates foreign-exchange losses for holders of dollar investments.
To discourage the large volume of speculative dollar selling often seen in Tokyo, Japan's Ministry of Finance last week asked financial institutions there to report their currency positions at four points during the day.
"You can't discount that anymore. They’re checking to see who’s been naughty and nice,” Stuart Katz, an investment officer on the foreign exchange desk of Harris Trust & Savings Bank. Chicago, said.
However, traders doubt that yesterday’s enthusiasm for the dollar marks the start of a recovery for the currency. They cite pressure from continued U.S. trade and budget deficits as well as a belief that U.S. policy makers would oppose a major dollar recovery as long as the trade deficit persists.
"We could continue to trade sideways, which wouldn't displease the members of the Group of Seven,” Mr. Vick of Manufacturers Hanover said.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery fell $12.60 an ounce from Friday’s level to $451.40 in heavy trading estimated at 7.8 million ounces. The Comex and other U.S. markets were closed Monday for the Memorial Day holiday.
Gold was quoted at $450.45 an ounce in early trading today in Hong Kong.
In early trading today in Tokyo, the dollar was quoted at 144.10 yen.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.