Market Lifted by Blue-Chip Rally As Volatility Hits Smaller Issues: ABREAST OF THE MARK Garcia, Beatrice E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 21, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Market Lifted by Blue-Chip Rally As Volatility Hits Smaller Issues
ABREAST OF THE MARKET
Bv Beatrice E. Garcia
The stock market broke out of its downward spiral yesterday, but fear continued to grip Wall Street as stock prices bounced around in extremely heavy, volatile trading. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange hit 608.1 million shares, topping Monday’s record of 604.3 million.
The rally was limited only to blue-chip, highly liquid stocks, which were aggressively sought out by investors and many corporations through share buy-back programs. But there was no relief for many of the smaller-capitalization issues, such as those traded in the over-the-counter market and on the American Stock Exchange.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished the day up 102.27 at 1841.01, scoring its largest one-day gain. Yesterday was the first advance after four wrenching sessions where the average lost 769.74 points.
Monday’s "decline shook the confidence of every investor, big and small. Now we’re having a flight to quality.” said James Andrews, head of institutional trading at Janney Montgomeiy Scott in Philadelphia. "If it’s not a quality name, (investors) don’t want it."
The emphasis on quality could be seen in several instances. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index climbed 12.00 to 236.83 and the New York Stock Exchange composite index gained 4.42 to 133.04. Both indexes were lifted by the larger-capital-ization stocks. But declining issues overwhelmed gainers on the Big Board, 1445 to 509.
The Nasdaq OTC composite index tumbled 32.42 to 327.79, down 9% after falling 11.4% Monday. The American Stock Exchange’s Major Market index sank 24.34, or 8.6%, to 258.16.
The OTC market was hurt not only by the flight to quality among investors, but also by a severe lack of liquidity where financially strapped market makers reportedly were unwilling and unable to accommodate orders from investors. There were reports throughout the day that many OTC market makers wouldn’t even pick up their phones. There also were many unconfirmed rumors of firms involved in the OTC market going out of business.
"We just saw waves of buying and selling" throughout the day, said Gerald Simmons, a managing director at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. in New York.
Most traders said program trading, linked to stock-index futures and options, had little impact on market prices yesterday. Investors executing these programs weren’t allowed to use the Big Board automatic order routing systems. And there were allegations from traders in Chicago that specialists at the New York Stock Exchange deliberately threw some obstacles in the way of program traders, such as halting stocks when they were over
whelmed with order imbalances.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rocketed more than 200 points in the first hour of trading as buy orders from overseas and from domestic bargain-hunters poured in. Sharply higher prices for Treasury bills and bonds and a jump in the dollar provided a sounder footing for the stock market early yesterday, offsetting news that stock prices had again crashed in the London, Tokyo, Frankfurt and Sydney markets.
A rush of sellers wiped out all of the gains and drove the industrial average down more than 25 points by midday. Traders said heavy selling to meet a record number of margin calls played a part in the midsession sell-off. The average rebounded in the afternoon.
Despite the market’s turmoil in the past two days, corporations haven’t been shy about buying back their own shares, traders said. More than 40 companies announced new buy-back programs yesterday; others, such as Ford Motor, accelerated programs already in place. Traders noted that the news of these buy-backs provided a psychological boost for the market, but didn’t lift all the issues involved.
“They see value at a time when it’s available,” said John Gavin, executive vice president at D.F. King. New Yorkbased proxy solicitation firm.
Mr. Gavin’s point wasn’t wasted on the likes of Citicorp and Shearson Lehman. Citicorp. which offered 20 million shares at $58.25 about a month ago, yesterday announced a repurchase of as many as five million shares.
Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings, which went public at $34 a share this summer, announced a buy-back of as many as three million shares. The stock closed at 17, down 3¥k.
“A lot of these companies are trying to do the courageous, patriotic thing and show they still have confidence in their companies and in the economy,” said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Pruden-tial-Bache Securities in New York. He added that corporations have spent $237 billion from 1984 to 1986 to buy their own shares.
The transportation stocks also failed to recover with the blue chips. The Dow Jones Transportation Average dropped 36.62 to 740.25, after falling a record 164.78 points Monday.
Most brokerage-firm stocks were under pressure because of worries about their financial health, especially if they have sustained big losses during the market’s recent decline. Salomon Brothers lost 6% to 22; Morgan Stanley plunged 9 to 55%; PaineWebber fell 4% to 1714; First Boston sank 6% to 261s; but Merrill Lynch rose 1% to 26.
E.F. Hutton had a wild day, trading as low as 11 and as high as 25%, amid rumors that it was having financial difficulties. President Robert Rittereiser stressed that the firm had no financial or operational problems. The stock closed down 6% at 16% on more than 2.4 million shares.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.