Stocks' Gain Is 3rd in a Row; Precious Metals Prices Fall While Bonds ...
RANDALL SMITH Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 30, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal .Pg. 3
Stocks’ Gain Is 3rd in a Row;
Precious Metals Prices
Fall While Bonds Rise
By Randall Smith Staff Reporter ofTuu Wall Street Journal - ’ Strong pressure on the dollar, which would have hurt the stock market before the recent crash, instead drove the Dow Jones Industrial Average to its third-larg-est one-day point gain.
The Dow rose 91.51 points to close at 1938.33, the third consecutive daily increase, though the dollar fell to a 40-year low against the Japanese yen and a seven-year low against the West German mark before recovering somewhat.
The industrials have rebounded nearly 200 points from the low of 1738.74, reached on Black Monday, Oct. 19. Even so, the stock market average remains 29% below its August peak.
Dollar’s Pre-Crash Weakness
Before the stock market crash, the dollar’s weakness had generally prompted the Federal Reserve System to tighten the money supply and raise short-term interest rates to defend the dollar and guard against inflation. At that time, interest rates and fears of inflation were rising, threatening corporate profits and economic growth. That sapped the stock market’s strength. '
Since the crash, however, the Fed has reversed course, easing credit and lowering short-term interest rates. These measures seek to stimulate economic growth in the face of the market collapse's shock to consumer confidence.
“I think all of a sudden, people think the declining dollar is good for our economy," said Robert Chesek, portfolio manager of the $550 million Phoenix Growth Fund in Hartford, Conn.
Mr. Chesek added, "Before we had the debacle in the stock market, the declining dollar was viewed as inflationary because the economy was growing faster than expected. But with economists saying we may have a recession, the declining dollar is no longer inflationary and may even help our economy" by spurring sales of U.S.-made goods abroad.
Inflation Fears Ease
A falling dollar can be inflationary because it makes imports more expensive. But. the ebbing of inflation fears was starkly apparent yesterday in a big drop in the price of precious metals. (See story on page 40.) Gold fell $11.80 an ounce to $468.70; and silver and platinum prices also plunged.
1940
1920
1900
1880
1860
Thursday’s Market
DJIA at 10 minute intervals 1960
1840
NYSE volume on a half-hourly basis
In addition, long-term bond prices, which generally fall on inflation fears, instead rose about $6.25 for each $1,000 face amount. (See story on page xx.) Traders said the rise occurred because the West German and Japanese central banks said they too were easing monetary policy. That also could lower interest rates and help spark world-wide economic growth.
The past few days have seen some of the most decisive drops in the dollar since the Group of Seven industrialized nations agreed last February to try to prop up the U.S. currency. Nearly all year, currency traders have contended that the dollar would have to fall to reflect U.S. trade and budget deficits.
Major Gainers
“The dollar may soon reach a level where it is no longer vulnerable," said Michael Metz, market strategist at Oppenheimer & Co. "That in itself would remove a major uncertainty. The faster it gets to where it's going, the better off we’ll all be."
The stocks that rallied most yesterday were those most directly affected by faster economic growth, such as International Paper Co., which rose $3.50 to $33,875 a share; Aluminum Co. of America, up $3 to $40.25; and Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., which rose $4.50 to $46,125. Other big gainers among blue chips included Merck & Co., which rose $16 to $179; Philip Please Turn lo Page 21), Column 2
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Industrials Soar 91.51 As Dollar Again Falls Against Mark, Yen
Continued From Page 3
Morris Cos., up $5.75 to $91.25; and Procter & Gamble Co., up $4,875 to $85.25.
The stock market advance was broad, with gaining stocks outnumbering losers four to one. All but two of the 30 stocks in the industrial average showed increases. The Nasdaq composite index of over-the-counter trading also climbed, gaining 15.17 to 307.05.
Many industry groups hit the hardest in the stock market downturn rebounded strongly yesterday. These included high-tech stocks and takeover situations, which got a boost when Illinois Democrat Dan Rostenkowski, House Ways and Means Committee chairman, said he would consider modifying tax proposals to limit interest deductions for some takeovers.
“The deal stocks are a good barometer of traders’ optimism or pessimism," said Oppenheimer’s Mr. Metz. He added that buyers of high-tech stocks also were looking for issues that would rebound faster than average in a market upturn.
Digital Equipment Corp., down from its 1987 high of $199.50, rose $9.25 to $134.75; Compaq Computer Corp, rose $5.75 to $49.25; and Apple Computer Inc. rose $6 to $39.25. “If you want thrills, that’s where you go,” Mr. Metz said.
The stock market’s advance yesterday gave a lift to many traders and money managers still shaken by the crash 10 days before. "People are so devastated from this that they just want to get some reassurance, and there’s nothing more reassuring than a (nearly) 100-point up day," said Harvey Eisen, president of Integrated Resources Asset Management Co.
Another money manager, who asked not to be identified, said that in retropect, "tighter money and higher interest rates to defend the dollar wasn’t sound policy. Better to let the dollar fall to its equilibrium level and accept the (longer-term) risk of somewhat higher inflation than wreck the economy."
Michael Aronstein, president of Comstock Partners Inc., a New York research and investment concern, said that talk that Britain's government might support underwriters of the British Petroleum Co. stock offering contributed to the market's optimism: “People want to believe that (the market downturn) is over.” (Britain said yesterday that it would proceed with the huge offering but with safeguards designed to prevent the price from collapsing.)
Mr. Chesek of Phoenix Growth Fund said he'd had 35% of his fund in cash and bonds before the market decline, but he now has 100% of his fund in the stock market. "I bought on the way down. I bought too early. But I was happy as a lark today. This feels good!”
He said he bought stock yesterday in Ingersoll-Rand Co. and Cooper Industries Inc., two machinery makers that could benefit from a lower dollar and sell at a dividend yield of about 4%. He said the market had oversold growth stocks and issues sensitive to the economy’s swings.
Some traders noted other encouraging signs in yesterday’s trading. For one, the Standard & Poor’s 500 index futures contract traded at a premium to the actual S&P average all day, indicating a relief from sales of the futures by portfolio insurance vendors who some say steepened the market’s decline.
Portfolio insurance aims to ensure that pension funds holding stocks receive a minimum return, cushioning the funds against a big drop in stocks. Some insurers do this by selling S&P 500 futures contracts. But the strategy didn’t work so well in the market’s recent decline because the drop was too steep to execute the trades properly.	.
Some traders think so many pension funds have terminated their portfolio-insurance contracts, or plan to, that many insurers will have to buy back futures contracts, which could give the market a lift.
Michael R. Sesit
CONTRIBUTED TO THIS ARTICLE
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.