Bond Market Rallies Strongly on Drop In Stocks, Rate Cut by West Germany: CREDIT MARKE
TOM HERMAN Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 4, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 25	*
Bond Market Rallies Strongly on Drop
In Stocks, Rate Cut by West Germany
CREDIT MARKETS
By Tom Herman
Staff Itwrlernf Till-: Wai.i. Sthkbt JoL'KSAI.
NEW YORK—Another sharp drop in stock prices and a long-awaited interest rate cut by West Germany’s central bank sparked a strong bond market rally here yesterday.
' The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped <2.44 to 1776.53. adding to speculation that the Federal Reserve System may drive down short-term interest rates further in an effort to avert a recession. The bond market rally also was fueled by the dollar’s strength in the foreign exchange markets.
The Bundesbank’s rate cuts and similar moves by central banks of Switzerland, France and several other European nations were greeted with relief by bond traders and economists. "Certainly the rate cuts abroad reduce sharply the possibility of a tightening move" by the U.S. Federal Reserve, said Robert H. Chandross. vice president and chief economist at Lloyds Bank in New York.
"Now it looks like the Fed can keep policy where it is or possibly even ease." Mr. Chandross said.
A decline in a closely watched commodity price index also contributed to the bond rally. Prices of some actively traded Treasury bonds, which had been little changed for the previous two days, wound up with gains of nearly a point, or about $10 for each $1,000 face amount.
Pressure on Fed Increased
The drop in stock prices yesterday provided the main catalyst for the bond rally because it "increased pressure on the Fed to provide liquidity to the financial system." said Maria Fiorini Ramirez, a managing director at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. Nevertheless, she and many traders still are anxious about a Labor Department report to be released this morning.
The Labor Department report on the nation's employment picture for November will offer the government’s first clues to how the economy fared during the month following the stock market collapse. "People are nervous about the employment numbers." said Mrs. Ramirez. "Everyone will be examining them closely for an indication of the momentum of economic activity for November."
Traders will be focusing mainly on the number of workers on nonfarm payrolls. The average estimate of 12 economists surveyed by the Dow Jones Capital Markets Report shows an increase of 178,000. That would be lower than the average of the past year and also well below the 549,000 surge reported for October. But estimates in another survey vary widely, and traders noted that this report is especially difficult to predict.
Federal Reserve officials, as usual, haven’t divulged their credit policy plans. The next regularly scheduled meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee is Dec. 15-16. Nevertheless, it is widely assumed that Fed officials will open the monetary spigots immediately if they sense that falling stock prices pose a significant threat to the economy's health.
Fed officials face an extremely tough task. They must provide just enough liquidity in the financial markets to deter a recession without at the same time being overly stimulative and fueling inflation fears'. If the Fed miscalculates, analysts say, the economy could suffer both a recession and higher inflation, or “stagflation."
Still, some technical analysts say the bond market outlook is encouraging. “We
feel the fixed income markets are currently lying on the ropes waiting for sellers to punch themselves out before again springing back to life on the upside," said Roger A. Froehlich, president of Technical Dimensions of Mt. Kisco. N.Y. In a report. Mr. Froehlich wrote that the bond market’s ability to withstand setbacks and then stage recoveries "is an important part of verifying the premise of dominant longterm strength."
In tlie credit markets, the price of the latest 30-year Treasury bonds jumped yesterday to 98 8/32 from 97 11/32 Wednesday. The yield on the bonds fell to 9.01% from 9.13%. The price of the government's latest 10-year notes rose to 99 26/32 from 99 8/32. as the yield dropped to 8.9% from 8.99%.
Interest rates continued to drop on Treasury bills, reflecting the growing number of investors switching their funds into short-term, government-backed securities. The latest three-month Treasury bill rate fell to 5.3% bid from 5.36% bid Wednesday, while the latest six-month bill rate declined to 6.11%; bid from 6.16%.
The federal funds rate wound up little changed, averaging about 7%. That was the same as on Wednesday. Although the rate that day ranged between 3%, and 11%. according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
The rate on funds, which are reserves that banks lend each other overnight, often swings especially widely on the final day of the two-week bank accounting period in which banks must settle their reserve positions with the Federal Reserve. The latest two-week period ended Wednesday.
Fed Intervened
Traders were encouraged yesterday by the Fed's intervention in the credit markets. The Fed injected reserves temporarily through arrangement of overnight repurchase agreements. The move surprised some traders, many of whom said this indicated a greater willingness on the part of the Fed to inject liquidity into the banking system. Mrs. Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert said the Fed appears to be aiming for a federal funds rate around 6%%.
In the municipal bond market, a new issue of about $205 million of revenue bonds by New York's Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority was tentatively priced yesterday by a group of underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. Yields ranged from 5.7% on bonds due in 1989 to 8.25% on those due in 2012.
Because of yesterday's bond rally, though, the managers of the underwriting group “expect to reprice the bonds" today to reduce yields, said Steven J. Kantor, a vice president of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.