Stock Prices Surge at the Opening, End Session Retaining Most Gains: ...
Garcia, Beatrice E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 2, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 59	,	#
Stock Prices Surge at the Opening, End Session Retaining Most Gains
ABREAST OF THE MARKET
By Beatrice E. Garcia
The stock market continued to recoup its recent losses as prices climbed amid broad and heavy buying by U.S. and foreign investors Friday.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose sharply as trading got under way, quickly advancing about 80 points and nearing 2020. It eased slightly during the shortened trading session, but managed to close with most of its gains, up 55.20 at 1993.53. Friday’s climb was the seventh-largest one-day rise for the average.
The industrial average finished the week down 12.43. After recovering more than half of its losses from Oct. 19’s crash of 508.00 points, the average plunged nearly 157 points last Monday.
The stock market's advance late last week was fueled by the growing perception that the Federal Reserve won’t raise shortterm interest rates to support the U.S. dollar. Rather. Wall Street analysts, economists and investors believe that the central bank seems more determined to allow rates to fall and to expand money-supply growth in an effort to avert a severe recession that could result from Oct. 19’s stock-market crash.
Along with the expectation of this easier monetary policy, Wall Street professionals and U.S. officials believe the time is right for a new monetary accord among the U.S., West Germany and Japan. Already, the West German and Japanese central banks have pumped reserves into their banking systems and said they were making credit more plentiful.
Friday’s rally wasn’t limited to bluechip issues. Advancing issues had an overwhelming 8-to-l lead over decliners on the New York Stock Exchange. The Big Board’s composite index rose 4.52 to 140.80, and Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index moved up 7.02 to 251.79.
Nearly 303.4 million shares changed hands on the Big Board, compared with
258.1	million Thursday. Although the Big Board shortened its trading session two hours a day last week, volume was remarkably high. More than 1.4 billion shares were traded, the second-busiest week for the exchange. It followed the record-blasting previous week, when 2.29 billion shares were handled.
Exchange officials said Friday that the Big Board will close at 2:30 p.m. EST today through Wednesday and at 3 p.m. EST Thursday and Friday. Officials hope to resume normal trading hours, with 4 p.m. closings, by next Monday.
Now that the threat of higher interest rates to support the dollar has been removed from the market, investors started to focus on the beneficial impact of a weaker currency. The lower dollar should make U.S. goods more competitive in foreign markets as well as against imports in America. Companies that derive a large part of their revenue from overseas operations should see greater gains when they translate that revenue back to dollars. The stocks of these companies were big gainers Friday.
Alfred Goldman, a market strategist with A.G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, is not as sanguine as others about the prospects for the stock market. He viewed last week's advance as just a technical bounce
after the market’s historic plunge. He also expects that if trading follows the usual pattern after a major decline, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is likely to revisit, or “retest the lows" seen during the Oct. 19 plunge after a brief rally.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average moved up 31.74 points, or 4.3%, to 757.24, turning in a better performance than the industrial average, which gained 2.8% Friday. The strong gains in technology stocks in the over-the-counter market were a big part of the 5.3% gain in the Nasdaq OTC composite index, which closed at 323.30, up 16.25 points.
U.S. Leasing International was the biggest gainer on the Big Board last month, up 36.7%. Ford Motor agreed to acquire the company for $68 a share. The other big gainers were mostly electric and gas utility common and preferred issues. Among the big losers were brokerage firms-Roth-schild Holdings, E.F. Hutton Group and Charles Schwab Corp. Other decliners included Munford, Allegheny International, News Corp., Tiffany & Co. and Caesars World.
Despite all the uncertainty that surrounded British Petroleum’s jumbo offering, there wasn’t that much turmoil in the market when shares began to trade Friday. BP's partially paid American depositary shares closed unchanged at 1714, with 13.2 million traded. It was the Big Board's most active issue.
The depositary shares began trading at 17’4 and traded as high as 18. These prices were well above the $14.40 the Bank of England agreed to pay for the shares as part of an effort to set a floor under them when they began trading. BP’s other American depositary shares fell 214 to 53%.
Morgan Stanley, one of the underwriters of the BP offering, jumped 4% to 53-1b. Most other brokerage stocks also advanced. .
Union Carbide moved up 2% to 21%. An Indian news agency reported that a Bhopal district judge has extended the deadline for a settlement in the gas disaster case. • Attorneys for both sides also indicated they were near a settlement. Other chemical stocks were big gainers.
While analysts were impressed with Friday’s sweeping advance, which lifted issues broadly in all markets, there were some losers.
AUegis sank 114 to 73% on more than one million shares. Traders said there was some disappointment over Allegis's plan to pay shareholders a special dividend of not less than $50 a share, after taxes and expenses, from the proceeds of the sales of its Hilton International, Hertz and Westin units.
USG Corp, dropped 214 to 35% on 446,600 shares. The company said it filed a suit Thursday in federal court in Chicago seeking to block a Texas partnership controlled by Texas oilmen Cyril Wagner and Jack E. Brown from buying any more USG shares.
Wynn’s International fell 114 to 1614. A venture-capital unit of Security Pacific has decided not to pursue its $27.25-a-share offer for Wynn's International.
Cilcorp Inc. lost % to 32%. The company said it expects to report a fourthquarter loss because of- a sharp decline in the value of the investment portfolio of one of its subsidiaries. Cilcorp estimated that its quarterly earnings could be decreased anywhere between 60 cents a share and 90 cents a share.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.