Central Bank Buying Lifts Dollar, Spurs Rally in Stock, Bond Prices: ...
Garcia, Beatrice E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 5, 1988;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 3	_	_	_______________________ ...__	___ -,	.
iCentral Bank Buying Lifts Dollar, Spurs Rally in Stock, Bond Prices
: Industrials Gain 76.42 Points ; After Unit’s Rebound ;	From New Postwar Low
:	By Bbathick E. Gaiicia
■Kiafr Reporter of Tiih Wai.i. Sthi:|.;t Jouiinai.
; The dollar was lifted from new postwar .lows by central bank intervention, Igniting la stock market rally that sent the Dow .Tones Industrial Average to the fourth largest one-day gain In its history.
1 Bonds prices also rallied yesterday, and ■gold prices skidded.
' Tlie new year's first trading day started ; with tlie dollar falling in Tokyo to 120.25 •Japanese yen, a post-World War II low. I Reported intervention by tlie Bank of Ja-; pan, and later by the U.S. Federal Reserve and central banks of West Germany and I Switzerland, eased the selling pressure. ; The dollar then started to rise, reversing a' ■ decline that had accelerated in die closing 1 days of 1987. In late New York trading yes; terday, tlie dollar stood at 122.98 yen.
; The dollar's rally continued in early ; trading Tuesday in Tokyo. In late morning . trading, the dollar was quoted at 124.00 yen, up from 123.00 yen at the opening, The dollar had stood at 121.65 yen at the <?end of trading Monday.
£ Slocks surged Monday in response to J the dollar's rebound, with tlie Dow Jones j industrials sprinting ahead more than 40 -■points in tlie first hour. Institutional and J individual investors alike kept the rally going throughout tlie session. Tlie industrials Closed at 2015.25, up 76.42.
*	Bond prices also surged. In early tradE ing, 30-year U.S. Treasury bonds were up r about 1 'i points from Thursday's close, or £ about .$15 for each $1,000 face amount.
a. ; The advance faded to just under half a 4 point by early evening, however, as a jump £ |n crude oil prices rekindled some concern » about inflation. Crude for January delivery X Shot up nearly $1 to $17.69 a barrel in New
*	York, partly as a result of cold weather, J Gold for January delivery on the Com-“modity Exchange in New York fell $8.10 an
ounce to $478.10. Some traders said the price might have weakened because central banks sold Some of the precious metal ,’4o buy dollars.
But William Sullivan, a money market ^economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in tNew York, said investors probably were [ taking profits on gold and foreign curren-o cies with tlie end of the dollar's recent del cline.
" Many other commodity prices followed ;■ the upward path of oil. Tlie Commodity -Research Bureau’s index of 21 commodity « prices rose a sharp 1.90 points to 234.43.
r This rise was taken by bond traders as a possible harbinger of rising inflation, but i stock investors remained impressed by the ;• dollar. Even though many investors had expected major central banks to try to
Surging Stocks
Open 10	11	12	1	2	3	4
stem further declines in the dollar by Intervening in the market and buying the U.S. currency, analysts said they were surprised by the strength of the dollar's rebound.
"It’s a nice way to start off the new year," Jon Groveman, head of equity trading at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Co., said. The rebound in the dollar "was the excuse people were looking for to start the year on an up note,” he said.
Stocks rallied broadly. On the New York Stock Exchange, nearly eight issues advanced for every one that declined. Smaller-capitallzation stocks also were swept up in the buying spree. The Nasdaq OTC composite Index rose 8.01 to 338.48.
The session stirred memories of last year, which began with a 32-polnt gain in tlie industrial average Jan. 2. The climb continued through January, and the average gained almost 14%.
But this year, while they were cheered by the market’s robust kickoff, few traders and investors harbored expectations of matching 1987’s first-month performance.
Michael O'Higgins, a money manager based in Albany, N.Y., said that as long as bonds offer investors a better return than stocks, the equity market is likely to underperform fixed-income securities. For equities to win investors over, he said, would require either another substantial drop in share prices to lift stocks' yields, a massive decline in interest rates that would reduce bond returns or an explosive surge in corporate profits.
One New York-based equity trader said that while many institutional investors were buying shares yesterday, some used the rally as a chance to sell. But there wasn’t any trouble finding buyers for the shares, he said.
Transportation stocks rose sharply despite the run-up in oil prices. The Dow Jones Transportation Average jumped 24.57 to 773.43, its eighth biggest advance on record.
Such blue-chip issues as General Electric Co., International Business Machines Corp, and American Express Co. were actively traded gainers. Major oil stocks^ including Exxon Corp., Atlantic Richfield Co., Chevron Corp, and Mobil Corp., each rose more than $2 a share.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.