An Appraisal: Foreign Takeovers Of U.S. Firms to Surge, Some Say: ...
Salwen, Kevin G
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 11, 1988;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 53
An Appraisal: Foreign Takeovers Of U.S. Firms to Surge, Some Say
ABREAST OF THE MARKET
By Kevin G. Sm.wkn
Last week's stock market surge and collapse did little to help Investors determine the market’s direction in the new year.
But as investors tried to sort out a volatile first week, capped by a 140.58-polnt drop in the Dow Jones industrial Average Friday, a number of traders and analysts say they are bullish on at least one fronttakeovers of U.S. companies by overseas concerns.
"I think this is going to be a very, very major factor in the American stock market this year,” contends Michael Metz, market strategist at Oppenheimer & Co., New York, “ft will be the major bullish influence on the U.S. stock market."
Two factors are joining to create unprecedented opportunities, experts say. The stock market's roughly 30% drop since August, coupled with the dollar’s relentless slide has, by some measures, made U.S. companies more than 50% cheaper for foreign buyers than they were last summer.
"The cheapest place for a foreign industrialist to buy plant and equipment is on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange,” says Peter Canelo, investment strategist at Bear Stearns, New York. "That will lead to a lot of takeover activity in U.S. capita! goods and basic services."
But dissenters contend that foreign activity can’t be counted on to support stock prices. "These are isolated stock purchases," says Scott M. Black, president of Delphi Management, Boston. "I don’t think they have a major impact on the stock market as a whole.”
The topic came to the fore last week after Hoffmann-La Roche launched a $4.2 billion bid for Sterling Drug. Aside from a huge Jump in Sterling’s share price, many other drug stocks surged on the news.
Mr. Black contends that the largest price moves were limited to the companies with the lowest price-earnings ratios, often considered the ripest takeover candidates. “That's not investing, that’s speculation,” he says.
Nevertheless, takeover bids from either foreign or domestic suitors certainly heighten interest in stock groups. Arnold Kaufman, editor of Standard & Poor’s Outlook, explains, “It creates this excitement, this speculative element that’s attractive to traders, to arbitragers, and .is generally a net bullish factor for the market."
Market experts note that takeoversand those by foreign concerns in particular, because they usually are cash transac-tions-create a ripple effect. For example, if the Swiss company succeeds in acquiring Sterling, it would heap $4.2 billion of new cash on the marketplace. “You have more money in the system that either has to go into bonds, to Las Vegas or into stocks,” Mr. Metz says. That often helps drive the prices of other stocks higher.
Moreover, the supply-and-demand equation has been greatly altered in the past several years by the steady removal of shares from U.S. markets. In the past four years, the net stock supply has dwindled an estimated $250 billion, mostly through buy-outs and buy-backs, according to Salo
mon Brothers inc. Therefore, the theory goes, that $4.2 billion has fewer shares of stock to chase.
A driving force In a variety of industries, Oppenheimer's Mr. Metz and others argue, Is that foreign concerns have limited markets In their home regions and are lured by the enormous U.S. market for their products. "The reinvestment opportunities in Europe and Japan are not that wonderful," he says. "Here you have the biggest markets around and you have the most permissive attitude about allowing people to do takeovers."
Robert W. Willard, head of mergers and acquisitions at Prudentlal-Bache Securities, New York, says that based on his “backlog and the number of companies we're working with, I would say that the majority of major European companies are going to be looking. They might not act but they'll be looking. They owe it to themselves to look at the U.S. marketplace."
Mr. Willard says he expects the larger European companies that already have a U.S. presence, such as Unilever and Nestle, to lead the charge. “They’ve done U.S. acquisitions already and continue to want to build their U.S. presence," he says.
Bear Stearns's Mr. Canelo adds that the firm's offices in Switzerland, Paris and Amsterdam “see corporations ready to buy.... They've been waiting for the dollar to bottom.” Most of those companies are seeking acquisitions in the capital goods and chemicals industries, he says.
Mr. Metz says lie expects 20% to 40% of the total merger and acquisition market to come from such deals. He targets the oil industry, household products (Including Gillette and Colgate-Palmolive) and forest products and paper companies as particularly vulnerable.
Several traders said that although they expect foreign takeover activity to increase, they question whether it will help drive the overall market. The Improved financial health of U.S. companies “would draw in more foreign Investments and I think that's healthy," says Donald Crooks, an equity trader at Morgan Stanley, New York. “But I don't think it portends the market taking off on a bullish spree.”
Moreover, Delphi’s Mr. Black argues that the U.S. stock market is overvalued and that the bullish experts are using foreign takeovers "as Just another theme. Frankly I think the market’s still overpriced and the sell side of Wad Street is Just grasping at straws,” he says.
And many experts disagree on which factors would keep the foreigners coming. Mr. Metz, who is bullish on the stock market and thinks the dollar is cheap, says the window of opportunity will close after stock prices and the dollar rise later this year. He also worries about what he sees as renewed protectionist sentiment in Congress.
S&P’s Mr. Kaufman sees the stock market swinging widely before ending the year with little overall change, and the dollar slipping 5% to 10%.
VOLUME SUMMARY
Trading totals for the week ended January 8, 1988.
	Week 1988	--Since January 1--	
		1988	1987
NYSE composite NYSE Warrants	1,070,247,010 933,730,250 4,940,600	1,070,247,010 933,730,250 4,940,600	999,296,090 848,435,410 2,810,540
Nasdaq OTC	676,984,500	676,984,500	624.038,169
AMEX composite AMEX	73,055,000 63,440,000	73,055,000 63,440,000	69,398,630 60,490,000
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.