Traders Say Curbs Enacted Since the Crash May Have Steepened Stock Market's Plunge: H McMURRAY, SCOTT
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 15, 1988;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 57
Traders Say Curbs Enacted Since the Crash May Have Steepened Stock Market’s Plunge
HEARD ON THE STREET
By Scott McMurray
The patchwork system of "circuit breakers" that is supposed to protect against another crash didn’t appear to help, and may actually have worsened yesterday’s 101-polnt plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, traders say.
Traders agreed the drop was sparked by disappointing trade-deficit figures and the falling dollar. But some contended the fall would have been smaller If the New York Stock Exchange didn’t bar use of Its automated routing system for index arbitrage trading, once the Dow Jones industrials move more than 50 points.
"This would have been a 60- or 70-polnt down day if the New York Stock Exchange hadn’t closed its (automated trading) system to program trading,” said Robert Gordon, president of Twenty-First Securities Corp. Index-arbitrage program trading involves shuffling money between stocks and stock-index futures, capitalizing on small price disparities. It often produces $30 million buy or sell orders for baskets of 300 or more stocks that are executed in seconds.
What's more, Chicago traders asserted that circuit breakers in the futures markets nearly sent stocks spiraling lower. At mid-afternoon, the Standard & Poor's 500 stock-index futures contract came within a hair's breadth of its daily 15-point limit on price moves. A further decline would have closed that futures market for the day.
“If the S&P would’ve closed, sell orders would’ve flooded New York" and sent the stock market sharply lower, said one harried trader overlooking the raucous S&P trading pit.
Closing tlie Big Board's automated trading system set off a chain reaction that drove stock and futures prices lower, traders say. Big securities firms started making their arbitrage trades manually, which requires a wider “spread" between the futures and the stock index to account for the less efficient method, traders say. Therefore they let the futures fall in price before executing their arbitrage trades.
Once stock traders saw futures prices falling, they ran to sell stocks. Their fear: the futures were telegraphing lower stock prices to come.
And with markets skidding in the final two hours, "the uncertainties about getting your order executed at the right price get too great," said one usually active index arbitrager in New York. He and others cut back such trading late in the day, removing a possibly stabilizing influence on stock prices.
Traders in Chicago said a handful of independent local traders and traders acting for Salomon Brothers Inc. bought futures contracts on the S&P near its lows at one point, temporarily stemming the market slide. Chicago Merc traders said that locals bought the S&P contract near its limit, figuring they had little to lose at that point. (S&P futures for June settlement closed down 13.70 at 258.40.)
The local traders couldn’t be identified. Louis Margolis, a Salomon Brothers managing director, wouldn’t comment on the firm’s specific trades, saying only, "we were buyers and sellers all day.” He added that he didn't think arbitrage trading played a major factor in the market slide.
The Big Board tried yesterday to fend off any criticism of its index-arbitrage curb. "My intelligence is that the market was driven purely by fundamentals" such as the bad news on the trade deficit, said Richard Grasso, Executive vice president of the exchange.
Mr. Grasso said he "didn’t see the logic" of assertions that stocks wouldn’t have fallen so badly without the index-arbitrage restrictions. “In a. couple spots where I made barometric readings" after the restrictions were announced, he said, "index arbitrage was continuing by hand."
But Sanford Grossman, a professor of economics at Princeton University who has studied program trading extensively, argued against curtailing use of the automated trading system on big up or down days. Such restrictions amount to "substituting a more chaotic trading mechanism for a less chaotic one," he said.
Mr. Grasso said the New York Stock Exchange will study yesterday's trading to see whether further circuit breakers are desirable. One grumble from some traders: Even though the automated Dot and SuperDot trading systems were off-limits to index arbitragers late yesterday, they weren't barred for other types of computerized trading. Some traders said they saw heavy selling of stocks by Investors using portfolio Insurance, a hedging technique that requires stock or futures sales in falling markets.
In trading in the smaller Major Market Index futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the contract was offered at its 20-point limit at about 2:30 EDT but rebounded higher.
"Once the Major Market hit 20 points down, I told our retail system that the futures were telegraphing a 100-point move in the Dow," said Peter Grennan, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in New York. Shortly before the New York close the contract traded at its 20-point limit—so trading was halted for the day-
a
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.