Dow Industrials Soar 88.10 Points, Dollar Beats Retreat as Coup Ends: WEDNESDAY'S MARKETS
Sease, Douglas;SESIT, MICHAEL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 22, 1991;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. C1	.	_________s________________
Dow Industrials Soar 88.10 Points, Dollar Beats Retreat as Coup Ends
By Douglas R. Sease And Michael R. Sesit Staff Reporters of The WallStreet Journal Stock prices soared as investors hailed the collapse of the short-lived coup in the Soviet Union.
Long-term bond prices rose modestly, but short-term Treasury securities lost ground as relieved investors abandoned the safety of Treasury notes and bills for higher yields elsewhere. Similarly, the dollar lost its "safe haven” political support and tumbled against other major currencies as the crisis passed.
The big rally in stocks began in Europe as it became increasingly evident that the coup leaders were losing their tenuous grip on power as a result of widespread defiance. By the time stocks opened for trading in New York, news reports had the coup leaders fleeing Moscow.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose more than 50 points in the first hour. Later reports that Mikhail Gorbachev was preparing to return to the Soviet capital pushed prices still higher.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 88.10 points to 3001.79 in heavy trading. Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 11.16 to 390.59. The Nasdaq Composite Index, a measure of small stock prices, closed at a record 517.97 on yesterday's gain of 15.92 points.
The buying binge in stocks reflected hopes among investors that with the Soviet Union’s crisis essentially resolved, the U.S. economic recovery, sluggish though it may be, will continue unimpeded. Among industry groups showing the biggest gains yesterday were apparel retailers, pollution control concerns, auto manufacturers and airlines. The biggest losers included en-
ergy and oil companies, as oil prices fell.
“Although it was a scary 48 hours, the net result of all this turns out to be positive in accelerating the favorable trends that were already in place," said David Bos-tian, chief economist at Josephthal & Co. “The only risk now is that if the Dow keeps up this pace and hits 3100 or 3200 in the next few weeks, we'li have gotten too far ahead of the fundamentals. But this ail makes the outlook for 1992 very positive."
Analysts said the failed coup may be just the catalyst the stock market has needed to break beyond the trading range in which it has been mired for six months. They said the triumph of reform forces in the Soviet Union could give consumer confidence here a big boost. Coupled with expected further reductions in short-term interest rates in coming weeks, such renewed confidence would considerably reduce the chance of a so-called double dip recession.
“Clearly, had the coup succeeded there might have been a more plausible case for a double dip recession," said Mr. Bostian. "But if the Federal Reserve eases in the next few weeks, as I expect them to, the prospects of a double dip diminish to a very low probability.”
Bond traders said the quick declines in short-term Treasury prices yesterday indicated that the flight to quality Monday was mostly among traders, not long-term investors. They said the attention of the bond market will revert to domestic concerns now, including expectations of further Fed easing.
The dollar took the biggest hit, falling more than 3% against the German mark. Traders attributed the decline to relief that the coup was over and the prospect of lower U.S. interest rates in weeks ahead.
Nonetheless, Richard Witten, partner in charge of currency sales at Goldman Sachs, predicted the U.S. currency will be trading higher-at about 1.85 marks and 145 yen-by year end. The dollar will rise because "the U.S. economy will be the first major country out of recession," he said. “Nothing’s really changed from an economic perspective because of the Soviet situation."
In major market action:
Stock prices soared in heavy trading. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 231.7 million shares. Advancing issues on the Big Board swamped decliners 1,478 to 268.
Bond prices rose modestly. The Treasury’s benchmark 30-year bond rose more than a quarter of a point, or $2.50 for each 81,000 face amount. The yield on the issue fell to 8.06%.
The dollar plunged, especially against the German mark. In late New York trading the currency was quoted at 1.7415 marks and 136.55 yen compared 1.7985 marks and 137.22 yen Tuesday.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.