Dow Industrials Jump 114.60 In Big Volume: THURSDAY'S MARKETS Herman, Tom
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 18, 1991;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Dow Industrials
Jump 114.60 In Big Volume
THURSDAY’S ~ MARKETS
By Tom Herman
majj Reporter oj 1'hb v, all loilxr j ouhnal
new YORK-Elated investors hoping for a speedy end to the Middle East war went on a buying spree in stock and bond markets around the world.
But Iraq’s missile attack on Israel late yesterday Immediately sent shudders through world markets. Traders quickly rushed to buy the dollar and gold, two traditional Investment havens.
In Asia Friday morning, gold jumped $12.25 an ounce to $386. Oil prices were volatile, with the price of a barrel of West Texas Intermediate for March delivery edging ahead $1.50 to $22.13 in Tokyo trading. U.S. Treasury bond futures prices slumped in nighttime trading. Tokyo stock prices, which surged 4.5% Thursday, gyrated wildly Friday. With an hour of trading left, the Nikkei Index was up 565.52 points at 24012.33.	-	'
Japanese investors, having been wildly whipsawed over the past 24 hours, are beginning to get "a bit cautious," said Taka-toshi Okumyama, a general manager at Dalwa Securities Co. in Tokyo Friday.
Prior to the Iraqi attack, investors exhilarated by sharp declines in oil, gold and most interest rates drove the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 114.60 points, or 4.57%, to 2623.51 in very heavy volume. Stocks soared a record 7.6% in Frankfurt, 7.05% in Paris, 6.6% in Madrid and 2.4% in London. .
Betting on lower inflation, investors also snapped up long-term Treasury bonds. Prices leaped 2% points, or $23.75 for each $1,000 face amount, in the biggest one-day rally since Oct 13,1989. Many traders also sold Treasury bills, which until yesterday were in great demand as investment havens.
Lower U.S. interest rates and speculation of even-further declines pushed the dollar lower against major currencies.
History proved to be a miserable guide to how the markets would react to war. In ' past conflicts, stock prices usually fell when shooting began. This time, though, "everyone spent so much time analyzing the Investment risks of war they forgot to look at the potential investment rewards of quick victory," said Edward M. Kerschner, chairman of the investment policy committee at PaineWebber Inc.
A fast windup to the war “is fundamentally very bullish for stocks because it means even lower oil prices and lower interest rates, which make economic recovery both more likely and sooner," he said. “But if the winds of war suddenly shift, stocks could give up all their gains as quickly as they found them.”
Among the biggest winners were stocks of airlines and other transportation companies that use a lot of oil. Among the big losers were companies specializing in preclous metals, oil, and mining.
Martin Zweig, a money manager and Please Turn to Page C12. Column S
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Markets Surge, Theri Iraqi Attack Sends™ Investors Scrambling
Continued From Page CI head of several mutual funds, said.he bought stocks as well as U.S. government bonds yesterday. War news and the Federal Reserve’s recent credit-easing moyep probably are “enough to give the bullsUie edge for a while longer,” he said.
Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange jumped to 318.9 million shares; the elghth-busiest day ever. “There’s a tremendous sense of relief and exhilaration that our military has proven so strong,” said Donald Stone, vice chairman of-the Big Board and senior partner of Laskfe£ Stone & Stern, a specialist firm. '
In major markets yesterday:
Stock prices jumped. The rally was, the' second-largest point gain ever for the Daw. Jones industrials, but only the 79th in percentage terms. Advancers outnumbered decliners on the Big Board 1,519 to 26X ‘
Bond prices also soared, and yields The Treasury’s 30-year bonds yieldfjd 8.19% late yesterday, down from 8.40%;Iafe_ Wednesday. ,
The dollar slumped. In late New York, trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.5880 marks and 132.34 yen, down from 1.5fe marks and 136.80 yen late Wednesday.??;
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.