Stocks Gain 71.54, Erasing Loss from Gulf Crisis
Sease, Douglas R
Wall Street Journal; Feb 12, 1991; ProQuest
pg. C1
MONDAY’S MARKETS
By Douglas R. Sease
Stctff Reporter o/The WallStreet Journal
Buying fever returned, sending stock prices soaring again. ,
Money managers and individual investors poured millions more dollars into stocks, driving the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 71.54 points, or 2.53%, to 2902.23. Yesterday's gain brought the industrial average back to the level at which it stood prior to Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait.	•
Trading was heavy, with 265.4 million shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, though a bit below last week's peak turnover of 292.2 million.
The rally continued on a broad front, including little stocks as well as big bluechip issues. The Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 7.30 points, or 1.67%, to 444.10, the highest level since July 26. Trading in the over-the-counter market was heavy, too.
Long-term bond prices eased slightly and the dollar fell, despite concerted intervention by the Federal Reserve and foreign central banks.
Analysts said the strength and breadth of the stock market rally indicates it has enough momentum to continue for the time being. "This move has got some heft to it,”
said A.C. Moore, a portfolio manager at Argus Management infanta Barbara, Calif. “It’s very broad and it’s sustained and it's going to hjjve some follow-through."
Nearly 20 stocks traded more than two million shares each on the Big Board. Communications technology stocks were the leading industry group, led by Motorola’s rise of 3% to 59%. Banks, brokers and other financial service concerns also reappeared among the market's top-performing groups. Merrill Lynch jumped 2% to 29%.
Mr. Moore said Investors are sensing the economy has probably hit bottom and will begin a recovery process in the next few months, fueled by the Federal Reserve’s efforts to stimulate growth through lower interest rates. He said that with inventories apparently under control and some cooling of the speculative excesses in real estate prices, lower interest rates may have more impact on economic activity than would otherwise be the case.
"While we don't yet see positive evidence that the economy has bottomed out, I expect such evidence isn’t far away," Mr. Moore said.	'
Mickey Levy, chief economist at CRT Government Securities in New York, said the market’s sustained rally is consistent with an economic outlook that calls for lower inflation, lower Interest rates, im-
proved economic activity and, eventually, improved corporate profits.
“We can't predict or explain one-day moves in the market, but the market’s performance over the last three months is consistent with an improvement in economic fundamentals,” he said.
Yet both analysts suggested that a tinge of panic may be in the frantic buying binge of the past week or so. “I continue to think that this is a powerful intermediate move that has further life in it,” said Mr. Moore, “but I also think there will be a pullback
from these levels. That’s when we’ll see how the economy is doing and where we go from there."	:
While the prospect of lower interest rates is bolstering stock prices, it is sending the dollar to new lows against some major, currencies. Yesterday, traders bld the dollar to a historic low of 1.4435 German marks, despite concerted intervention by the Fed and the central banks of the U.K., France and Canada.	,
Although the U.S. currency later rebounded somewhat, traders said the dollar is headed lower. They suggested that the central bank intervention is likely aimed at smoothing the dollar's decline to even lower levels, rather than actually trying to shore up the currency in the face of sharply lower demand.
In major market action:	■
Stock prices rocketed higher in heavy trading. Advancing Issues on the Big Board were far ahead of decliners, 1,433 to 329.	;
Bond prices fell marginally. The Treasury’s benchmark 30-year bond lost 2/32 point, or 62.5 cents for each SI,000 of face amount. The yield on the issue rose to 7.96%.
The dollar fell. In late New York trading, the currency was quoted at 1.4475 marks and 127.73 yen, compared with 1.4568 marks and 127.78 yen Friday.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.