6/11/2017
Dow Industrials Jump 380.53 to 8020.78 --- Greenspan's Words Seem To Do Trick - ProQuest
1Back to results	More like this +
Dow Industrials Jump 380.53 to 8020.78 --- Greenspan's Words Seem To Do Trick
By David Wessel and Jacob M. Schlesinger. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]09 Sep 1998: C1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Hide highlighting
Forget the fundamentals. Disregard interest rates. What matters to global markets, it seems, are words -- as long as they are uttered by Alan Greenspan.
In the first day of trading in U.S. markets since the Federal Reserve chairman's speech on Friday, stocks rose smartly, as they had the day before in markets from Stockholm to Singapore. The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day at 8020.78, up 380.53.
Whatever the reason, Mr. Greenspan helped buoy the markets when they needed it most -- without anything more than talk. "The irony is: If it works, he doesn't need to do anything," said former Fed governor Wayne Angell, now at Bear, Stearns & Co.
Full Text Translate
WASHINGTON -- Forget the fundamentals. Disregard interest rates. What matters to global markets, it seems, are words -- as long as they are uttered by Alan Greenspan.
In the first day of trading in U.S. markets since the Federal Reserve chairman's speech on Friday, stocks rose smartly, as they had the day before in markets from Stockholm to Singapore. The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day at 8020.78, up 380.53.
Why? Even some market professionals were hard-pressed to explain. "Who knows?" said Philipp Hildebrand of Moore Capital in London. "The market is so messed up right now that any piece of potential good news has people excited," he suggested tentatively.
Two rational explanations were offered for the market 's response.
One was that investors figure that the Fed may soon consider cutting U.S. interest rates. That always cheers the stock market, even though the effect of a small rate reduction on the economic woes of Russia, Japan and Southeast Asia would surely be tiny.
The other explanation was that someone credible seems to be taking charge, giving markets some sorely needed reassurance. After all, when it comes to making markets feel better, no one has Mr. Greenspan's touch.
"What he said was kind of bland and obvious," said Yale economist Robert Shiller, who has studied the behavior of investors. His impact "has something to do with the fact that he has had such an effect on the market. It's not necessarily that people try to make sense out of the speech. It becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy."
Whatever the reason, Mr. Greenspan helped buoy the markets when they needed it most -- without anything more than talk. "The irony is: If it works, he doesn't need to do anything," said former Fed governor Wayne Angell, now at Bear, Stearns & Co.
Paul Samuelson, the Nobel Prize-winning economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, marvels that "Greenspan has acted in a . . . masterful way, talking out of each side of his mouth while keeping interest rates the same."
Economists doubt the Greenspan effect can be long-lasting, though. "It's not as if the history books are necessarily going to look back and say that on a certain Friday, the chairman of the Federal Reserve made a certain statement and, like King Canute on the shore, stopped the waves coming in," Mr. Samuelson said.
Indeed, when a Greenspan after-dinner speech in December 1996 included the memorable phrase "irrational exuberance," the industrial average lost 145 points the next trading day. Six months later, it had risen more than 1,000 points.
To some extent, Mr. Greenspan was stating the obvious in his remarks at the University of California's business school. With both the global economy and the U.S. stock market deteriorating, the risks that the U.S. economy is about to overheat and produce an acceleration of inflation have faded, and the risks of recession have risen. So the Fed has shelved talk of rate increases -- for now.
The key passage was this: "In the spring and early summer, the Federal Open Market Committee . . . was concerned that a rise in inflation was the primary threat to the continued expansion of the economy. By the time of the committee's August meeting, the risks had become balanced."
What about the future? On that, Mr. Greenspan was vague, vowing that he and his colleagues "will . . . consider carefully the potential ramifications of ongoing developments." (No news there.) But markets noted his prediction that the effect of the global financial crisis on prices and overall demand for goods and services in the U.S. "is likely to intensify."
Some on Wall Street read great significance in those words.
"People were very afraid in the middle of last week that they [the Fed] were going to remain fixated on the risk of wage pressures in the U.S. while ignoring a huge contraction in the world economy," said Mark Mahoney, a New York market strategist at Warburg Dillon Read, a unit of Swiss banking company UBS AG. "On Friday night, he
signaled that they do recognize what is going on, and if it becomes worse, they will act. . . . A relatively healthy economy in this country will get more of a boost in order to
help out the economies overseas."
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398679478/C49C066CF8E1444APQ/4?accountid=12861
1/2
6/11/2017
Dow Industrials Jump 380.53 to 8020.78 --- Greenspan's Words Seem To Do Trick - ProQuest
J.P. Morgan & Co. investment strategist Douglas Cliggott said Mr. Greenspan spoke directly to investors' main fear these days -- that a weakening economy will pull stocks into a bear market. "One of the implications of what he said could be that you won't need to see as pronounced a slowdown in domestic demand before the Fed starts to move," Mr. Cliggott said.
Not all Fed watchers were so encouraged. "The pundits got as far as the fourth paragraph and stopped reading," said another former Fed governor, Lawrence Lindsey, now at Economic Strategies Inc., a bearish New York investment-advisory firm.
"It was the most depressing speech I have ever seen Alan Greenspan give," Mr. Lindsey said. "He said that the fate of the markets is in the hands of psychology. It's not in the hands of policy makers. It's almost like he stared into the abyss and said, 'It looks hopeless."'
Of course, some careful students of the market aren't convinced that Mr. Greenspan deserves so much credit for the stock market 's rise. Yale's Mr. Shiller noted that Japan's Nikkei stock index opened down Monday and didn't soar until later in the day.
'That doesn't make any sense if you believe Greenspan's remarks' sparked the rally,' he said. Investors had the whole weekend to consider the speech. The Nikkei should have opened up.'
E.S. Browning contributed to this article.
(See related article: 'Tuesday's Markets: Point Gain Sets Record; Joy Is Muted' -- WSJ Sept. 9, 1998)
Credit: Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Word count: 972
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Sep 9, 1998
More like this
n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
l_l Dow Jones averages
U Stock prices
L_l Securities markets
People
U Greenspan, Alan
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398679478/C49C066CF8E1444APQ/4?accountid=12861
2/2