5/25/2017 The Bear Stirs: Stocks Plunge Again, Battering Stalwarts And Internet Stars --- Dow Industrials' 6.37% Drop Wipes Out 1998's Gains; On Nasdaq, It's W...
More like this + The Bear Stirs: Stocks Plunge Again, Battering Stalwarts And Internet Stars --Dow Industrials' 6.37% Drop Wipes Out 1998's Gains; On Nasdaq, It's Worse --Some Say Bottom Is in Sight
By Greg Ip and E.S. Browning. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Sep 1998: A1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
In percentage terms, however, the Dow Industrials' fall was only the 25th largest ever. The drop came to 6.37%, a little less than the one-day decline last Oct. 27 and far smaller than the Oct. 19, 1987, one-day crash of 22.61%.
The Nasdaq Composite, dominated by such powerful wealth engines as Intel, Microsoft and Dell, endured an even worse pounding than the Dow Industrials. The Nasdaq Composite lost 140.43 points, or 8.56%, for the largest decline in point terms in its history. The fall wiped out roughly $160 billion in market value of Nasdaq stocks.
Some traders and analysts say that amid the wholesale dumping of stocks, many investors are losing sight of the fundamental strengths of U.S. companies and the U.S. economy. And institutional pros, presumably among the most sophisticated of investors, were doing some nibbling. Jon Olesky, head of block trading at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter & Co., found that as the market plunged at the end of trading, some big institutional clients were stepping up with buy orders.
Full Text Translate
Fear swept through the stock market yesterday, triggering frenzied selling that drove most market measures into the red for the year.
The damage was deep and widespread. The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 512.61 points -- the second largest point decline ever -- to end at 7539.07, which is below the level at which it started 1998. Volume was extremely heavy.
In percentage terms, however, the Dow Industrials' fall was only the 25th largest ever. The drop came to 6.37%, a little less than the one-day decline last Oct. 27 and far smaller than the Oct. 19, 1987, one-day crash of 22.61%.
The Nasdaq Composite, dominated by such powerful wealth engines as Intel, Microsoft and Dell, endured an even worse pounding than the Dow Industrials. The Nasdaq Composite lost 140.43 points, or 8.56%, for the largest decline in point terms in its history. The fall wiped out roughly $160 billion in market value of Nasdaq stocks.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock Index, meanwhile, tumbled more than 69 points, or about 6.8%.
The selling engulfed most stocks but was hardest on some of the names that have come to symbolize both the stock market's and American business's strength: CocaCola plunged $7.625 to $65.125, General Electric slid $5.875 to $80, and Wal-Mart fell $6.375 to $59.
Nasdaq's crown jewels, which had begun to crack Friday, succumbed to waves of selling yesterday. Microsoft was down $9.3125 to $95.9375, for instance, and Dell Computer sank $18.75 to $100.
At the other end of the spectrum, the highflying Internet-related stocks -- which symbolized the exuberance of the market as individual investors bid them up, sometimes with scant regard to earnings-were crushed. Amazon.com plunged $22.14 to $83.75, America Online sank $14.3125 to $81.9375, and Yahoo! fell $14.0625 to $69.
No single big event took the blame for yesterday's carnage, but a series of smaller ones heightened the geopolitical and economic nervousness already troubling investors. North Korea launched a ballistic missile, and Russia's Duma refused to confirm the reappointed Viktor Chernomyrdin as prime minister. The release of a disappointing Chicago purchasing managers index added to the sell-off that gathered speed in the morning, says William Meehan, a market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald & Co.
Michael Clark, head of U.S. stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston, says such events were less of a factor than simply "the fact that, on the margin, there is no incremental buyer. You see an uptick and three sellers show up."
Some traders and analysts say that amid the wholesale dumping of stocks, many investors are losing sight of the fundamental strengths of U.S. companies and the U.S. economy. And institutional pros, presumably among the most sophisticated of investors, were doing some nibbling. Jon Olesky, head of block trading at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter & Co., found that as the market plunged at the end of trading, some big institutional clients were stepping up with buy orders.
The late-day trading was particularly intense. "You could see the whites of people's eyes," says Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "There was relentless and indiscriminate selling taking place." Volume came to more than 914 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the third-heaviest ever. But it didn't present any problem for systems at the Big Board, says its chairman, Richard Grasso.
For millions of investors who have held their ground while watching their year-to-date gains evaporate, the plunge stepped up the pressure to cut and run. "We'll just have to see how much of our retail accounts and 401(k) retirement accounts start redeeming," says Ned Riley, chief investment officer at BankBoston. "How the less-seasoned investors ride out this storm holds the key to the future."
He worries about a possible bad-news barrage as companies talk about their earnings prospects. "The banks have 'fessed up a little bit" about emerging-market losses, "but we're going to see more warnings about the third quarter and also the fourth quarter," he says.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398685043/1383EEE334E114A791C/3?accountid=14026
1/3
5/25/2017 The Bear Stirs: Stocks Plunge Again, Battering Stalwarts And Internet Stars --- Dow Industrials' 6.37% Drop Wipes Out 1998's Gains; On Nasdaq, It's W...
More important than what lies ahead today or tomorrow is whether the bull market that has endured for nearly eight years and created trillions of dollars of wealth is tumbling to an end. Many market professionals term a decline of 20% or more from recent highs a bear market, marking the end of the preceding bull market. With yesterday's rout, both the Dow Industrials and the S&P 500 index were off about 19.3% from their July highs.
But the 20% definition is somewhat arbitrary. A true bear market involves not just a certain number of points down but also a broad shift in investor sentiment, from one of overall optimism to one of overall pessimism. And there are plenty of optimists who believe that the mood still hasn't changed to general gloom.
"It's hard to know when the psychology is going to change," says Lou Mazzucchelli, an analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co. "But where is the money going to go? Can you do better in the bond market? No. In a certificate of deposit? No. Until somebody gives me a convincing answer that the money has a better place to go, then I think the money will come back here."
And Mr. Galvin at DLJ suggests that for many nervous investors, "it's a question of exiting now and re-entering at some later period of tranquility."
The fuel that has carried stock prices from their highs just six weeks ago is a set of factors almost no one could have predicted: a chain of foreign events seemingly with little direct importance to the U.S. economy amid a plunge in long-term interest rates to their lowest in 30 years. Bear markets have almost always begun at home, and usually with rising, not falling, interest rates.
Where does it go from here? No one can be sure. Without the classic set of triggers most analysts look for, the source of a rebound is also unclear.
Some strategists -- noting the still-decent fundamentals of low interest rates, continued-though-modest profit growth and little sign of recession -- concluded that yesterday's drop has made stocks a bargain. Yesterday, strategists at four brokerage firms raised the proportion of assets that they recommend clients put in stocks. The drop has been so steep that it could well lure the wave of bargain hunters who brought the market back from its 554-point decline last October.
Byron Wien, the U.S. investment strategist for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, figures that relative to bond yields -- the biggest rival for investors' dollars -- stocks have gone from being too pricey by about 18% to being too cheap by about 12%. The trouble is, markets can go from one valuation extreme to another, he says.
"The market isn't a totally rational place," Mr. Wien says. "At tops and bottoms, it becomes very emotional."
Mr. Wien feels the market is close to, if not at, an at-least-temporary bottom. "What you need are stocks that were religious experiences to come back to reality, and that's happening. Individuals are liquidating stocks directly, they're selling mutual funds, and you're seeing mutual funds which cater to individuals anticipating redemptions and raising cash. That's the kind of strategic selling that you need" to make a bottom.
More-pessimistic observers see the decline very differently -- as a long-awaited return from unjustifiable levels, and one that may have further to run.
"A market that has brought everybody in and is more highly valued than any other is a potentially bigger-risk market," says Robert Farrell, senior investment adviser at Merrill Lynch & Co. "When I hear the statement that this is an overreaction to events in Russia, that doesn't take into account that maybe what we did on the upside was [also] an overreaction to events."
Mr. Farrell believes that this decline "will be difficult for a lot of investors. . . . The true long-term investor can get through it all right, but the investor who only came in in the last couple of years and sees a lot of his stocks cut in half is going to get disillusioned, which is the sad part."
Actually, there are plenty of investors for whom a sharp decline is no longer new. That's because while the major indexes were hitting highs just six weeks ago, the majority of stocks had long since been in what market pros call a correction, and many were down well over 20%.
Through Friday, the average New York Stock Exchange issue had fallen 35% from its 52-week high and the average Nasdaq stock was down 46%, according to Salomon Smith Barney. That, of course, was even without yesterday's carnage. Those declines exceed the drops in the worst month of the 1990 bear market and are comparable to the plunge experienced in the short but brutal late-1987 bear market.
Obviously, the price markdowns have made stocks better buys than they were a short while ago. One of the most popular measures of stock value is the price-earnings ratio, which relates the price of a stock to the annual per-share earnings the company produces. Measured over the entire universe of 500 stocks in the S&P 500, the priceearnings ratio of the index has fallen to 21 times the previous 12 months' operating earnings, according to estimates by Lehman Brothers. That is down from 25 at the end of June -- the highest recorded in 38 years.
But while stocks are cheaper by the P-E measure, it isn't at all clear that they are cheap enough, especially with earnings growth soft. The historical average P-E ratio is far lower still, in the midteens.
"I'd agree with the bulls that the fundamentals haven't changed as dramatically as the prices of stocks have declined, but these stocks went up in the absence of any strong fundamentals in the early part of the year," says Cantor Fitzgerald's Mr. Meehan. "We can have bounces at any point in time, but it will be extraordinarily unlikely that the stocks that are still trading at 30 to 50 times earnings are going to turn on a dime and people will decide they are bargains."
So how bad might it get?
Tim Hayes, senior equity strategist at Ned Davis Research, says the median cyclical bear market this century has knocked the Dow Jones Industrial Average down 26%. From its closing high of 9337.97 July 17, that would take the market down to about 6909. "A normal cyclical bear market would take us down to the October lows" of about 7,000,says Mr. Hayes.
But he raises an additional warning signal: He calculates that the average mutual-fund investment was made with S&P 500 at about 824. That would be a 31% decline from its 1998 high, and a further 14% drop from yesterday's close. "A drop into that range is when the real pain starts to set in," Mr. Hayes says. The risk then is that the public will start to sell en masse. "The odds are this is a correction, but the momentum begins to get so great and psychology begins to turn to such an extent that it's really hard to lift it."
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398685043/1383EEE334E114A791C/3?accountid=14026
2/3
5/25/2017 The Bear Stirs: Stocks Plunge Again, Battering Stalwarts And Internet Stars --- Dow Industrials' 6.37% Drop Wipes Out 1998's Gains; On Nasdaq, It's W...
Some analysts are looking beyond the market itself for help. One concern is that the market decline itself is raising the risk of an economic weakening; as households see their stock-market wealth shrink, the theory goes, they may rein in their spending. Even if prices now are at attractive levels, some market-watchers suggest, it could require some outside stimulus to prompt investors back into the market. That stimulus could range from steps by Japan's government to at last fix its ailing banks, to the Federal Reserve's reducing short-term interest rates.
But a growing minority of analysts warn that the circumstances facing the economy and the market now are much different from those in previous business cycles. They argue that deflation has replaced inflation as the greater threat to the market, by putting downward pressure on prices, profits and business investment.
In such an environment, lower interest rates could no longer be counted on to automatically boost stocks. Bonds have been strengthening, and thus their interest yields declining, even as stocks have plummeted. Yesterday the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond dropped to 5.24% from 5.33% as fretful investors shifted their money into the one truly safe investment on the horizon.
"Typically rates rise in a stock sell-off, but this time they're falling," notes Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research in Barrington, Ill. "The elixir of lower interest rates isn't helping stocks this time."
Still, there are some market pros who are itching to jump into stocks they perceive as bargains. Lawrence Auriana, co-manager of the aggressive-growth Kaufmann Fund, says he wasn't among the sellers yesterday. He had already increased the fund's cash and bond levels and picked stocks he wanted to short, which means he would borrow the shares then sell them in anticipation of buying them back cheaper later. As of last Friday, he says, the fund held about 11.5% in cash and 5% in bonds, and it was about 3.5% short.
"It's getting mighty tempting here to start buying and covering our shorts, but we haven't started," Mr. Auriana says. "I don't think we've seen a full-scale selling climax."
The fund manager says he is pleased to see the larger stocks and the top 100 in the Nasdaq Composite bearing the brunt of the sell-off. "You have to have a correction in the biggest stocks before you can see the small stocks come back in a big way," he says."
Deborah Lohse and Gregory Zuckerman contributed to this article.
Credit: Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Word count: 2269
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Sep 1, 1998
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Dow Jones averages
LJ Stock market crashes
LJ Stock prices
U Securities analysis
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398685043/1383EEE334E114A791C/3?accountid=14026
3/3