Dollar's Safe-Harbor Rally Is Cut Short As Russian Woes Raise Liquidity Needs By Marianne Sullivan
Wall Street Journal; Aug 28, 1998; ProQuest
pg. 1
Dollar’s Safe-Harbor Rally Is Cut Short
As Russian Woes Raise Liquidity Needs
By MARIANNE SULLIVAN Dow Jones Newswires
NEW YORK-The dollar’s haven-inspired rally was cut short by plunging U.S. stocks as Russia's financial and political crises deepened and Latin American markets were hit by a new round of capital outflows.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 357.36 points, pushing the dollar toward intraday lows against the mark and the yen.
“The markets are being punished not for fundamental or rational reasons, but because people need to raise liquidity,” said Robert Podorefsky, strategic trader at BankBoston in Boston.
The yen maintained its recent recovery as investors continued to cover high-risk exposure by liquidating dollar-yen positions, fearing that Russia’s worsening situation would infect other emerging markets.
More Jitters Over Yeltsin
Rumors that President Boris Yeltsin would resign created a fresh wave of panic for already nervous Russia watchers. Their concerns had been raised earlier by the central bank’s decision to stop offering dollars, practically rendering the ruble inconvertible.
As U.S. stocks nosedived, speculation arose in currency markets that the U.S. Federal Reserve would ease monetary policy, as it did following the 1987 stock-market crash. Fundamentally, such a move is seen as bearish for the dollar. However, a Dow Jones survey of 30 U.S. economists yesterday found that a majority didn’t expect any Fed easing any time soon.
Late yesterday afternoon in New York, the dollar was trading at 141.87 yen, down from 144.07 yen Wednesday in New York. The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.7970 marks, down from 1.8065 marks. Sterling was trading at $1.6543, up from $1.6377.
After falling to a one-month low in early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar recovered a hit by about midday. The U.S. currency was trading then at 140.85 yen and at 1.7995 marks.
Stocks fell around the globe yesterday, led by a 17.1% decline in the Russian Trading System. Subsequent flights of capital again prompted a slew of central banks to defend their currencies.
Canadian Dollar Sags
Commodity-based currencies continued to feel the pressure. The Australian and Canadian dollars fell to new lows against the U.S. dollar despite repeated centralbank interventions.
The U.S. dollar reached a record high against the Canadian dollar of C$1.5840, up from C$1.5655 late in New York Wednesday. The biggest move came immediately after the Bank of Canada raised its benchmark bank rate one percentage point to 0%.
Traders in New York reported that the New York Federal Reserve Bank sold about US$100 million for Australian dollars on behalf of the Reserve Bank of Australia yesterday, as the Australian currency fell to US$0.5525, its lowest level since it was floated in 1983.
Haven seekers also were dumping the Norwegian krone moving to re-establish positions in the safer core Euro-zone currencies.
In Norway, the krone ended sharply weaker against the mark pressured by an overheating economy, slumping oil prices and lack of confidence in the government.
In Mexico, the peso tumbled to another record low as measures by the Bank of Mexico to raise interest rates once again failed to bolster the currency.
Banamex quoted the peso’s closing price at a midrate of 9.9450 pesos to the dollar, weaker from Wednesday’s close of 9.7750 pesos.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.