Small Stocks Rally on Rate Cut, Outperforming Industrials; Reno Air Rises on Earnings News
By Aaron Lucchetti
Wall Street Journal; Oct 16, 1998; ProQuest
pg. 1
Small Stocks Rally on Rate Cut, Outperforming Industrials; Reno Air Rises on Earnings News
By Aaron Lucchetti staff Rcnorler nf Tut: Wai.I. Street Jouunai.
Smail stocks shot higher In response to the surprise interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve.
The Russell 2000 index of small-capitalization stocks rose 9.83, or 3.02%, to 334.81. The rise, the third largest in point terms and the sixth best in percentage terms, was marked by a sustained rally in the morning and a renewed burst of buying at around 3:15 p.m. after the news of the Fed’s cut.
Nasdaq Issues also soared with the broader market, outperforming both the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. The Nasdaq Composite Index picked up 70.04 points, or 4.55% to 1611.01, the fourth-iargest one-day gain and the seventh-greatest percentage upswing for the technology- and small-cap-heavy index.
The surprise Fed move helps the stock market, especially smaller growth companies, says Satya Pradhuman, director of small-cap research for Merrill Lynch in New York. “This will create a more favorable backdrop” for small-cap stocks, Mr. Pradhuman says. “The fact that they’ve taken action means we’re closer to a floor in the relative performance of small-cap stocks.” Mr. Pradhuman said small-cap growth companies on Standard & Poor's 600 small-stock index outperformed value companies and may continue to do so, thanks to the Fed’s rate cut.
The Nasdaq move was broad, carrying more than 2,700 issues higher, while about
1200 issues fell on the national market. Despite the Fed’s move, the best gains of the day came from companies with good third-quarter earnings news.
Reno Air posted a gain of 114, or 31%, to 5'4. The Reno, Nev., air carrier announced third-quarter net of 78 cents a diluted share, compared with net of 39 cents a diluted share in the prior year and above the consensus view of analysts. The company also said it sees a profit for the full year, despite a large reported loss in the first quarter.
EndoSonics, of Rancho Cordova, Calif., jumped 114, or 29%, to 6%. The maker of balloon-angioplasty catheters and drug-delivery systems reported third-quarter operating income of seven cents a share, compared with two cents a share a year ago and two cents above expectations.
Royal Appliance (NYSE) gained 14, or 20%, to 3. The company posted third-quarter earnings of 10 cents a share, compared with 17 cents a share in the prior year, but also said it is gaining market share in the upright-vacuum segment because of new product launches. The Cleveland company develops vacuum cleaners for home and commercial use.
Premiere Technologies rallied 1 3/16, or 39%, to 4 '4. The Atlanta provider of com-munications-services plans to cut its work force by 10% as part of a cost-reduction plan the company expects will cut costs by about S20 million a year.
American Italian Pasta (NYSE) sank 5 1/16, or 22%, to 1715/16. The Exelslor Springs, Mo., pasta maker and marketer said fourth-quarter results will meet analysts' estimates but said 1999 results will fall five cents below First Call Corp.'s con
sensus estimate of $1.30 a share.
MotivePower Industries (NYSE) shares rallied 4, or 22%, to 2214. The Pittsburgh train-part maker posted third-quarter net of 41 cents a diluted share, compared with net of 29 cents a diluted share a year earlier. The results exceeded analysts’ expectations.
Shares of Electric Lightwave slumped Th, or 14%, to 514. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter lowered its rating on the Vancouver, Wash., telecommunications company to “neutral” from “outperform.”
Avis Rent a Car (NYSE), Garden City, N.Y., late Thursday posted third-quarter net of 83 cents a diluted share, compared with 45 cents for the prior year and seven cents above analysts' expectations. Its board increased its existing stock-repurchase program to five million shares from 1.5 million shares. The stock jumped 4 5/16, or 34%, to 17.
Hyperconi (NYSE) shares soared 1%, or 43%, to 6%. The Phoenix company, which supplies point-of-sale payment systems, earned 17 cents a diluted share in its fiscal first quarter, compared with 35 cents a share in the prior year.
Analysts were split on if the rate cut would continue to propel small stocks. Some said investors were looking fearfully upon the smaller-cap issues. These analysts noted that relatively high trading costs recently and continued uncertainty have kept investors’ money out of smallcap issues. Investor money lias flowed out of small-cap growth-stock funds for three straight weeks, said AMG Data Services, a fund-flow tracking firm in Arcata, Calif.
-Larry Bauman contributed to this article.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.