Brazil Takes Center Stage Amid Global Market Turmoil PAMELA DRUCKERMAN Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 14, 1998;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. C1
By Pamela Diwckekman
Staff Reporter of Tiie Wali. Street Journal
The storm that has rained on stock markets from Malaysia to Russia this year is centered squarely on Brazil.
Though Brazil has long moved in sync with the changing outlook for other emerging countries, it has taken center stage in the global-market turmoil that began when the Thai baht was devalued in mid-1997. "Brazil is where the battle's being fought," says Tim I/ive, global emergingmarket strategist at SG Cowen Securities.
Analysts say Brazil has been carried into the spotlight through a mix of economics and simple bad luck. When Russia devalued its ruble last month, sending stocks there into a tailspin, investors noted that, like Russia, Brazil had a yawning budget deficit and a crawling peg currency, which gradually is adjusted within a band set by the central bank. To make matters worse, Brazil faces a hump of
matures this month and in October - just around the time of its contested presidential elections.
For shell-shocked investors, many of whom had been badly burned by stocks from other emerging markets, the similarities suddenly eclipsed the sharp differences. "People began to say 'if it can happen in Russia, why can't it happen in Brazil,''' says Ronald Ratcliffe, chief Latin economist at SG Cowen.
The focus on Brazil was apparent last week, as investors stampeded in and out of Brazilian shares. On Thursday, the benchmark Bovespa index dove a record 167, surpassing even sizable drops in U.S. and European markets, on fears that Brazil would devalue its currency. But the Bovespa rallied back 137 the following duy, after Brazil raised a key interest rate again and hopes circulated that the U.S. or international agencies would step in with a bailout plan. For the year, the index is down 507.
Brazil's sheer size also made it an easy target. By far the largest market in Latin America. Brazil boasts the third-largest
k	ia//n /1	America	
	
	Asia	\
uh m m	tin tll.llT III till 111 Hit HI till
Emerging Markets Index on Thursday. Several of Brazil's large and liquid stocks, notably phone giant Telebras, are traded alongside U.S. blue chips on the New York Stock Exchange. For monej' managers needing to raise cash fast to meet redemptions or margin calls because of losses in
other regions, Brazilian shares - some of which hadn't been pummelled as much as stocks in Asia and Russia - were an obvious choice to sell.
Not that the rest of Latin America has been spared. A plunging peso and jumpy U.S. stocks pushed Mexico's 1PC index down 127 last week, leaving that market off 117 for the year. In Argentina, a key trading partner for Brazil, the Merval stock index fell 1-17 last week and is down 5.37 for the year.
The stakes are highest in Brazil: Its gross domestic product is about double
Russia's, and about the size of the Mexican. Argentine and Chilean markets combined. Brazil lias strong trade ties to other Latin American countries and to the U.S., making it likely that economic weakness
will continue to ricochet across borders, notes .Jorge Mariscal ot Goldman Sachs.
Brazil's importance was underscored late last week when Stanley Fischer. first deputy managing director of the InternaPlease Turn to Page Citi, Column I
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Brazil Takes Center Stage in Global Turmoil
Continual From Page Cl tional Monetary Fund, said the agency is prepared to step in with aid for Brazil if domestic measures prove insufficient. U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin issued a statement saying Brazil is vital to U.S. interests and the U.S. backs the Brazilian government’s effort to support its economy.
Analysts say developed countries can't afford to overlook Brazil’s massive market, which generates nearly a third of all of the goods and services produced in Latin America.
“In the next three months, what happens in Brazil will be the key for what happens in Latin America and emerging markets,” says Eduardo Cabrera, Latin strategist at Merrill Lynch. "There’s no way of getting around it: Latin America cannot rally or hold its value if Brazil is going down."
Even if Brazil manages to keep its economy and currency afloat, how soon stock markets recover is uncertain. Though investors were willing to plunge back into Latin stocks after markets came under fire
a year ago, many now have less cash to spend and have decided the risks of emergingmarkets don’t justify the returns. Troubles in Asia have weakened the global economic outlook, which already has been felt in weakened U.S. stocks.
The damped global outlook means that the sunken prices of oil, copper and other commodities, which many Latin American countries depend on heavily, are unlikely to recover anytime soon. “The dynamics that will propel the region are no longer there," says Vinod Sehgal, a Latin analyst at SG Cowen. “If you have most of the world in recession, how do you export your way out?"
In Brazil, one of the big casualties of the recent Brazilian price drops is Telebras, which had been hailed as one of the region’s most promising stocks after its spectacularly successful privatization in July. On the eve of that sale, Telebras's American depositary receipts were trading at about $125 each, and analysts had set one-year price targets of more than $200. The ADRs closed Friday at $57 each.
There are certainly bargains to be found, as the recent price plunges have made stocks cheap by almost any measure. Last week, Brazilian shares were trading at an average of 4.5 times estimated 1999 earnings, compared with seven times next year’s earnings just a month earlier.
But many investors say that-with uncertainty reigning from Washington to Moscow-they aren’t inclined to buy Latin stocks at any price, at least for now. Some say they are willing to forgo a few percentage-point jumps if it means a smoother ride down the road.
"There’s no sense in trying to be a hero," says Frank Fernandez of New Yorkbased GEM Advisors, which sold all of its Latin American stocks last month and now has most of its portfolio in cash. "I’d rather watch this thing bounce a couple of times than step in front of a moving train again.”
That skepticism is fueled by the fact that Latin economies aren’t as robust as they were a year ago, when Brazil successfully fought off currency pressures and Latin stocks seemed likely to withstand the downturns from other emerging regions. After a healthy 5.3% rise in gross domestic product in 1997, Latin countries are expected to grow only about 3% this year, in part because of lower commodity prices, Mr. Ratcliffe predicts. Brazil should fare even worse: Largely because of higher Interest rates, its GDP is expected to grow 1.5% or less this year and next, he says.
Friday’s Market Activity
Stock markets began Friday on a weak note in Asia, but by the time the turbulent week drew to a close, some European markets managed to eke out gains while Brazil’s Bovespa index had rebounded 13.4% after Thursday’s bloodshed.
In Asia, worries ranging from the recent weakness of the Japanese yen, fears of Indonesian rioting spreading, and unease surrounding the political future of the U.S. led to large losses in the region.
In TOKYO, the Nikkei index plunged 749.05 points, or 5.1%, its worst one-day loss so far this year, to end the week at 13,916.98. That is just above the Nikkei’s 12year low of 13,915,63, set Aug. 28. Part of the reason for the sell-off was the jump in the value of the yen against the dollar.
Regional Markets
DJ Global Indexes; reindexed to 100 on Deo. 31.1997	-	- •
On Monday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index rose 30.12 points to close the morning session at 13947.10.
On Friday, few stocks managed to post gains as 160 stocks set new lows for the year on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Toshiba fell 7% on rumors that its parent would only break even in the current fiscal year. The stock slid 33 yen to 437 yen a share.
Trading house Nissho Iwai fell 30 yen, or 21%, to a new low for the year of 160 yen a share after Moody's slashed its credit rating, citing the company’s businesses in emerging markets. Shares of Marubeni, also downgraded, slid 10%.
The rise in the yen dented stock prices of export companies. Toyota Motor fell 200 yen, or 6.6%, to 2,840 yen while Canon slid 155 yen to 2,710 yen a share.
In HONG KONG, the benchmark Hang Seng index tumbled 271.48 points, or 3.5%, to 7578.48, due to the slide in Japanese stocks on Friday and on Thursday’s sell-off of U.S. stocks. Banks and property stocks led the way lower, with HSBC Holdings tumbling HK$4 to HK$151.50 a share.
In SEOUL, the Kospi index fell 5.4% to 320.61, again following the Japanese market lower. Confusion surrounding the Malaysian goverment’s new restrictions on currency trading weighed on the markets in Kuala Lumpur and Singapore, while the Indonesian market fell another 1% on political unrest there. In Thailand, stocks fell 2.8%. Only Taiwan bucked the trend, with its benchmark index rising 0.56%.
European stocks managed to recoup many of their losses late in the afternoon, in the wake of the Russian Duma's endorsement of Yevgeny Primakov as prime minister and the rebound in U.S. stocks.
In FRANKFURT, the Xetra DAX stock index gained 0.2%, climbing 10.6 points to 4754.65. Among the companies profiting from a late-day short-covering rally was Bayerische Motoren Werke, which rose 4.2%. But bank shares continued to trail the market on worries about losses in Russia and Asia, with Dresdner Bank falling 1.95 marks, or 2.8%, to 68.5 marks, and Deutsche Bank falling 2.1%.
In LONDON, stocks wrapped up a turbulent session with the FTSE100 blue-chip index down 18 points, or 0,4%, at 5118.6, after breaking below 5000 during the day. Shell Oil surged 16 pence, or 4.7%, to 358 pence, and British Petroleum gained 12 pence to 793 pence.
Other European oil stocks benefited from buying by U.S. investors amid concerns about supplies of crude oil. In Norway, Saga Petroleum climbed nearly 2%, while France’s Elf Acquitaine jumped 4.8%, and Total SA climbed nearly 6%.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.