Stocks Streak 212.73 Points to Six-Week High
By E.S. Browning
Wall Street Journal; Feb 23, 1999; ProQuest
pg. C.1
Stocks Streak 212.73 Points to Six-Week High
By E.S. Browning
Staff Reporter o/ Title Wall Sthkft Jouhnal Hopes (hat interest rates won't be heading higher, and that the February slock swoon may have run Its course, drove Investors strongly back Into stocks yesterday.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average staged its (hfrd-strongest gain of the year
Euro Takes a Hit
The euro traded below SI. 10 for the firat time, before a partial recovery, cauitng ripples in global stocks. Coverage in World Stock Markets column, page C14 and Foreign Exchange, C12.
in both point and percentage terms, rising 212.73, or 2.28%, to 9552.68. tt was the industrials* highest close In six weeks, since Jan. 11. The gain leaves the blue chips less than I7o below the Jan. 8 record or 9643.32.
Bonds also rallied amid hopes that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who testifies before the Senate Banking Committee today, won’t hint al any
plans to raise interest rates. The 30-year bellwether Treasury bond gained H point, or 55 per $1,000 bond, pulling the yield down to 5.319%. The dollar was mixed following its strong recent gains.
Although the bond gains weren’t spectacular, they marked a strong rebound from a period of weak performance earlier tills month. Bonds prices had been held back by rising bondyields in Japan, which, traders said, threatened to pull money out of U.S. markets. Now, many Investors are hoping that the bond weakness is over, meaning that bond yields, and market interest rates, can fall. As stocks and bonds both moved higher during the morning, many investors decided to Join In the buying.
“Every time It starts to pick up steam that way, people gel a leg back on board lo make sure they don't miss the train," said Michael Clark, head of U.S. stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston.
Many traders said that short-sellers, or Investors who bet on stock declines, were forced to cover their bets by buying shares. Reports that the short-sellers were moving back into slocks helped accelerate the buying, creating a snowball effect.
News of a rash of now takeovers and
The Dow’s Performance
0JtA at 5-miniite intervals yesterday:
9500
9400
9300
J
takeover blds also helped stoke the enthusiasm for stocks.
The hopes tor lower rales lifted both financial and technology stocks. The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index oulgalncd the Industrials, leaping 2.56%, or 58.41 points, to 2342.01. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock Index, strong In both financials and tech slocks, outdid both the
Dow Industrials and the Nasdaq Composite, rising 2.667e, or 32.92, to 1272.14.	1 >
“People In the short term maybe had been gelling a little too bearish, a little too cautious," said Warren Epstein, head trader at Richard A. Rosenblatt, who noted that the Nasdaq Composite had fallen about 10% from Its Feb. 1 record close of 2510.09. “This may be a rally going against that excess bearishness." r*
All the same, he and Mr. Clark noted, volume on the New York Stock Exchange was lighter than normal. At 715.6 million' shares, it was well below the year's daily average of more than 817 million shares. “With the volume so light, you wonder about the legs on It, whether the rally can continue," Mr. Epstein said.
The Dow Industrials now arc up 4.0i% for the year, after being in the red for 1999 os recently as Feb. 10.
Roughly twice as many stocks rose on the New York Stock Exchange as declined, which was a positive sign. But both the Big Board and tlic Nasdaq Stock Market saw more new lows than new highs, which isn't positive.
It some of those technical factors improve, Mr. Clark said, the Dow Industrials Please Turn to Pope C/5, Column I '
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Stocks Soar to 212.73-Point Gain
i,	Continued From Page Cl
!: "could attack 10000."
j “Technology weathered this recent r pullback fairly well," Mr. Clark said. "The money came out of a high-flying sector,
1 and it was distributed" to groups such as : .financials and economically sensitive ] Stocks "In a very orderly way."
; ' Gains yesterday among inlemel-re-i latcd slocks also helped ease fears that ! .they could fall hard.
; Investors seemed, In the words of Can-
<	.tor Fitzgerald cliicf market analyst Wil-I Ham Meehan, to be trying to "front run" ; .Mr. Greenspan's expected testimony, lie i1 lately has avoided dropping strong hints : 'about his views on slocks or Interest rales.
<	That has tended to push stocks up in the ? -short run. So some investors loaded up on
stocks in advance.
;' "The world still has problems and I find it very hard to believe that the Fed is going
1 'to tighten up any time in the next six I months." said Alfred Kugcl. senior investment strategist at Stein Roe & Farnham
restrict computer-generated trades during sharp downward or upward price moves. Initially, the restrictions kicked In whenever the Dow Jones Industrial Average moved 50 points from a previous close.
But given the blue-chips' big gains In the 1990s, 50 points now represents a much smaller percentage, of the Industrials' value than In 1987. The restrictions were being triggered on almost every trading day. Starting last week, the collar was recalculated according to a new percentage-based formula-tile polnlcqulvalentof 2% of the index, set quarterly - and currently Is sei to trigger only at a ISO polnl move.
Tho dollar hit its strongest level yet against Europe’s new euro, as the euro
Investment Management in Chicago. “The U.S. economy Is strong but most others In the world are not. 1 think the Fed will lake a world perspective on this.”
Hopes are spreading that steady economic growth and low Inflation, nicknamed (he "Goldilocks economy.” could continue. “The world economy Is likely to be growth-depressed" for now, said Robert Morris, chief Investment officer at New York fund-management group Lord Abbott. "And the Goldilocks scenario has been generated by disinflation together with anemic global growth.”
Still, he doesn't see stocks moving sharply beyond their current levels. The one threat to the market, he added, is the i| risk that global economic growth could . turn strong later this year, forcing interest i rates higher and stock prices lower. I
The Nasdaq Composite now is up 6.81% I on the year and the S&P 500 is up 3.49%. I
Yesterday's gains provoked the first 1 triggering of the New York Slock Exchange’s revised, widened 180-polnt "collar" rule, limitingcertain compulcr-gener-oted program trading. Collars were Instituted following the 1987 market crash, to
dipped below Sl.to for the first time ever, before regaining some ground late In the day. Alter Its big gains against the yen, the dollar fell very slightly against (he Japanese currency.
The average share of stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange rose $1.03, or 2.29%, to $16.01.
World-wide, stocks advanced In dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index rose 3.65 points to 203.14.
In major market action:
Stocks and bonds gained. On the Big Board, 1,962 stocks rose and 1,063 fell.
The dollar was mixed. In New York, It traded at $1.1035 to the euro and 120.90 yen to the dollar, strengthening from $1.1068 but weakening from 121.05 yen,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.