Street Watches Fed, and Vice Versa
E S BROWNING Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNALThomas Granahan Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 7, 1999;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. C1	_	'
Street Watches Fed, and Vice Versa
By E.S. Browning
' One Uiing Is sure about lhe huge stock rally that capped trading last week: Alan Greenspan didn't like II.
The Federal Reserve chairman has been worrying lately that lhe stock market Itself could fuel inflation if Its gains make consumers more eager la spend money. Twice already, in June and August, the Fed's worries about Incipient Inflation In the economy made it boost guideline interest rales. Now. If the chairman Is as worried about stocks as tie sounds, the markets could be in for more unpleasant Fed efforts lo keep a lid on stock and bond prices.
If lhe Fed wants lo hold stocks down, notes Ned Riley, chief Investment officer at BankBoston, "The best strategy that they can pursue is to continue to create anxiety In the market." He worries that stock Indexes could have trouble advancing much this year.
And If the Fed's goal was to confuse lhe markets, it certainly succeeded last week. Markets were closed yesterday for the Labor Day holiday. But following news of moderate August wage increases, the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Friday soared 235.21 points, or 2.17%, to 11078.45. That marked Its second-largest point gain of lhe year and filth largest in percentage terms. The Nasdaq Composite Index, heavy in technology stocks, rocketed 108.87, or 3.3S%, its largest point gain to date and lltivlargest thus (ar In percentage terms.
. But anxiety about a possible third Fed rate raise In October had driven slocks
sharply down in the days before. Even after lhe industrials' big gain on Friday, their earlier declines left them down 11.72, or o.ll'i. for lhe week.
Investors had hoped that the Fed's Aug. 21 rate increase would put an end to the Issue, but that hasn't happened. Now all eyes are fixed on the Fed's next meeting, at lhe start of October. Before then, investors will bite their nails over Friday's announcement of producer-price data for August, and lhe announcement of August consumer-price Information lhe following Wednesday.
The debate on Wall Street Is whether the Fed will content itself with two rale raises, those of Juno and August, or go for a third. Mr. Riley, for one, thinks that Fed officials will avoid further increases. but that they will do their best to talk tough in an effort to keep investors off balance and rates up.
"They would love to talk lhe market
down," says Christine Callies, chief U.S. market strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. Bill, she adds, "that usually hasn't worked: In fact. I can't remember a single time it has worked In the past 200 years."
There are plenty of bulls who think Unit, despite all the talk, market interest rates are close to their high jxilnls now, unlikely to gel much worse. That Is lhe view of Goldman Sachs investment strategist Atiby Joseph Cohen, for one.
"We have seen most of Interest-rate excitement (or tills year." says Ms. Cohen, who believes that the stock market continues to benefit from the Fed's success at Please Turn to /ty;e Cl, Column 3
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Wall Street Debates Whether Fed Will Go for Another Rate Increase
Continued Frotn Page Cl fostering moderate economic growth with low Inflation.
"It is possible, but by no means certain that Fed will raise rates again later this year, but even If they do, Il already Is reflected In long-term bond yields," Ms. Cohen says. In other words, market rates already have moved up so much tn anticipation of a possible rate Increase that they aren't likely to move much higher.
She expects a combination of strong cor ponite profits and favorable inflation and interest-rate news to push slocks higher in the second half of this year. "We believe that Inflation troughed last year, but won’t be mov-'ing dramatically higher soon," she says.
Some analysts add that, even if the Fed wants to raise rates later litis year, it will hold back. Why? The economy may need loose credit and plenty of liquidity nt year end. In case jitters over year-2000 computer problems cause people to pull money out of investments.
"We an? rapidly approacliing a point where the Fed’s primary Job wilt be to provide liquidity for those who wish to hold cash for the start of the year 2000," maintains Prudential Securities chief investment strategist Greg Smith hi a report to clients.
Some Fed officials Insist that they won’t let the year-2000 effect tie their Imnds.
And Gary Campbell, chief Investment ollicer at Commerce Funds, In St. Louis, thinks the Fed will surprise the bulls by carrying out its veiled threats.
“We think It Is quite possible that the Fed is going to do it"-raise its Interestrate guideline—"again before tbe end of the year," he says. "Ultimately, they will act." What’s more, he adds, "(hose higher rales will Jeopardize current levels of tbe stock market, and potentially give us a correction," or a decline In stock prices of about 107.	'
Given the recent Increase In unit labor costs, an Inflation Indicator the Fed watches closely, the year could wind up looking something like 1991, he says. Tho Fed’s repeated rale Increases that year kept the stock market from going anywhere, making It the worst year for stocks since 1990.
"What we saw in 1994 was a pre-emptive Fed doing its work," lie says. “And I don’t think the Fed Is going to be any different in terms of a strong economy going Irom 1999 Into 2000."
Some-analysts think the Fed planned all along tt> reverse all three t>! the rate cuts that It ordered last fall, when it wanted to help end the world financial crisis spurred by Russia's debt default. An October rate raise would reverse the last ol last year's three quarter-point cuts.
Ms. Callies sees a debate growing between those who see a strong economy and higher Interest rates, and those who see what has been called a Goldilocks economy, with moderate growth, light Inflation and no rate Increases. She worries that the debate could dragon, putting a lid on stock gains for the rest of the year.
"Very often when the markets get stuck In these trade-offs. It takes several months to resolve the Issue,” she says.
Stocks certainly have had trouble making progress since talk ol a Fed rate raise began In April.
In the past two weeks alone. stocks soaretj around the time of the Aug. 24 rate Increase, in hopes that the Fed was done raising rales. Then Mr. Greenspan made Ills veiled comments about the risk that stock gains themselves could cause inflation, and stocks plummeted. That slide continued amid reports of higher manufacturing costs, and comments from Fed Governor Edward Kelley that the Fed might not be done raising rates. Then came Friday, when a report of moderate August wage gains made slocks turn on a dime and head up again.
Keep your seat belts fastened.
Friday’s Market Activity
Financial issues soared on the news of weaker-lhan-expected wage growth. American Express rose io 142, J.P. Morgan added to 133 13/16, CitlGroup giilned 111/16 to 45s.. and Chase Manhattan jumpeiH'i to 85.
General Electric added 3 15/32 to 11G 13/32, International Business Machines tacked on 2 63/61 to 128 55/6>, and Wai-Mart rose by IT, to 47 9/16.
Shares of Coca-Cola, however, weren't able to join in on the rally, losing 2'., or 3.67, to 57’x. The Atlanta beverage company said its third-quarter earnings will come in below expectations.
Quintiles Transnational iNastiaq) rallied 2’4. or 7.87, to 37’.. Tho Durham, N.C., company, which offers contract research services for drug and medical device companies, will be added to the S&P 500 index alter trading closes Tuesday.
American Eagle Outfitters (Nasdaq) added 4 15/16, or 117. to 48'4. The apparel retailer, Warrcndale, • Pa., will replace Quintiles in the S&P MidCap 400 index. .
Shares of Ingram Micro lost 2't. or 9.37, to22. Morgan Keegan lowered its rating on the company to "market perform" from "outperform." Ingram is a Santa Ana, Calif., seller ot technology products and services.
Advanced Micro Devices improved 1 3/16 to 21. On top of a stronger technology sector, the Sunnyvale. Calif., integrated circuit company also said It plans to Increase its share of the Japanese market for microprocessors for personal computers to slightly more than 307 by 2001, according to a report in a Japanese publication.
—77<om«s Gnuudom
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.