Stocks Drop 218.68 as Earnings Pressure Builds
By E.S. Browning
Wall Street Journal; Mar 24, 1999; ProQuest
pg. C.1
Stocks Drop 218.68 as Earnings Pressure Builds
By E.S. Brhwninc
Staff lltpottcr of Tut: Wau. Stiikct Journal
Building anxiety over earnings, to-gelhcr with the hangover from last week’s failed run at a Dow 10000 close, combined to end tlie March stock euphoria.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average took Its second-worst tumble of the year In both point and percentage terms, falling 218.68 points. or 2.21%, to 9671.83. The Industrial average gave up two weeks or gains. The blue-chip index remains up 5.34% for (he year.
But after closing just a whisker - 2.38 points - short of the 10000 mark on Thursday. the industrials now need to gain 328.17 points, or 3.30%. to reach that psychologically Important barrier. (The only bigger fall Ilian yesterday's for lhe Index Illis year was on Jan. 14, a 228.63-polnt drop amid Brazil jitters.)
Technology stocks, hit by fears that soft first-quarter personal-computer sates will hobble earnings, led lhe market down. Microsoft, the slock with the nation’s highest market capliullzation. plunged 3.G2%, or 6‘«, to 16G 9/16 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The technology-stock-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index fell harder than (he industrial average in percentage terms, dropping 73.10, or 3.05%, to 2322.81.
With the once-hot technology stocks sagging, the Nasdaq Composite has given up more than half Its 1999 gains, and Is up 5.91% on the year. For the first lime in
Arrivederci, Dow 1OOOO?
Blue Chips Tumble...
DJIA al 5-mlnule intervals yesterday
Amid Earnings Anxiety -Recent profit warnings from companies themselves or Wail street analysts ,
COMPANY WARNINGS
’wtmc.p.. CHANGE-
Coca-Cola	Merrill Lynch cuts	-6 23% profit forecast
BellSouth	Goldman cuts	-13.96 profit forecast
Dell	Donaldson, Lufkin &	-34.29 Jenrette cuts profit forecast
(SM	Morgan Stanley cuts price -16 05 target on revenue concerns
First Union	Announces job cuts and -17.96 projected earnings below expectations following January earnings warning
weeks, the Dow Industrials’ year-to-date gains tire pulling even with ihose of the Nasdaq Coiiqmslte. The industrials’ shortage of tech stocks and heavy dose of economically sensitive stocks had held It back, bu( now that tech shortage Is an advantage.
Fears yesterday about coming Western air strikes against Yugoslavia helped cause some buying of safe Treasury bonds. But bond gains were moderate and the dollar was off. Some traders said that lhe problem isn’t foreign policy, but the onset of the season that arrives at the end ot each quarter, when investors start
’from 1999 high
wringing their hands over possible quarterly earnings shortfalls.
"You really had the ultimate momentum attempt, which was running stocks through 10000. and when you have that fall, with ah the talk about valuation, (ha( heightens people’s sensitivity a little bit.” said Michael Clark, head of U.S. stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. “I can’t underline enough how significant the loss of momentum is, because there are a lol of people who only play It for that reason.’’
Richard Unruh, chief investment officer for stocks at Philadelphia asset-man-
agemenl group Delaware Investments. called lhe slock decline ’’overdue. Obviously It was triggered by several disappointing releases that affected the technology sector and (tie banking area. But thb' real problem has to do with the narrowness * of tlie market,” or the fact that gains had bccume concentrated In a few huge, popular slocks such as Microsoft.	i,
’’This could just be a minor correct tlon,” Mr. Unruh said. "But extremely,' narrow markets like this can’t go on forever, because they push up lhe favorite stocks to the point that there Is no way that they can achieve the expectations that onset for them."
The most Immediate problem Is that Ibis is the season for bad earnings news,* As the quarterdraws to a close, companies that can see disappointing earnings com1’ ing lend to announce It In advance, to avoid surprising shareholders later and, possibly, provoking lawsuits. Companies with good news feel less need to announce it.
The result is that the last two weeks of the quarter tend to be jammed will) bad, news. Good news generally must wait for the early part of the next quarter. In this case. April.
One of the most recent disappointments* came from from regional banking group. First American Corp., which fell almost 10% alter warning analysts that it won’t, meet first-quarter consensus earnings estimates. That, together with the jitters over Yugoslavia, helped pull down bank slocks in general, which had been among' lhe leaders of the March rally.	-.,
But lhe biggest worries center on tech ,, imtogy stocks, which have been lhe market drivers virtually since 1991. Because those slocks have gained so sharply, any disappointment hits their stock prices hard. an<| translates Into trouble for lhe entire market.
A negative comment about Interna-lionat Business Machines from a Morgan" Stanley Dean Witter analyst has been, blamed for knocking that stock down oh Friday, and knocking the industrial average, which Includes IBM. out of Dow 10000 territory.
Dell Computer hasn’t recovered from its February announcement that revenue growth for the quarter ending January was weaker limn analysts expected. And negative comments from a Donaldson. Lufkin & .Icnrelle analyst Monday helped push it down further.
Stocks fell because of "an accumulation" <dconcerns about earnings,” together with-lhe news (hat the Organization of Petro-, leiim Exporting Countries Is moving to restrain production, which would push up the price of oil, said Tim Morris, chief Investment officer at Bessemer Trust. ..
But he added. ”i think investors artr overreacting on both counts."
He. and other optimists, (minted out that earnings worries at lhe end of quarters often are outweighed by lhe actual earnings reports, which lend to bo bettor Ilian analysts expect.	’ ’
"We ll have to wall and see, but 1 think this is the same old same old," said Mri * /’/case Turn to Cll, Column 5
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
A Dow 10000 Recedes From View
Continual From Page Cl Morris. "Tliey were worried about PC sales in the fourth quarter, too. I don't know that we have discerned anything that Is terribly different today than n coupleof tnontlis ago. Those sales projections are pretty volatile and It Is the characteristic of the business." All the same, he added, "The techs have been getting a Utile frothy, there's no doubt about It. This pullback might even be described as healthy."
Added Alfred Kugel, settlor Investment strategist at Stein Hoe & Farnham Investment Management In Chicago, "My guess is that we aren't going anywhere on lite upside until we actually gel the first-quarter reports. If they come In better than expected, as they have lit recent quarters, we could get the trigger for another upside move. But we won’t know that torn tew more weeks."
Some Investors worry that the problem could be more serious. "There Isn't n big margin for error in the market. It Is overvalued," said Mr. Unruh of Delaware Investments.
Mr. Kugel and Mr. Morris both said that some Investors decided it was time to pull back because the industrial average couldn't close nbove 10000 before theend-of-quar-ter earnlngs-warnings season kicked in.
“It's been struggling for the last few days since we first got near 10000 on the Dow." Mr. Kugel said. "I wouldn't put a lot of weight on the round number, but obviously It is having a psychological Impact."
The biggest problem stocks are facing. In this view, Is simply that they have temporarily nm out of steam alter posting surprisingly big gains.
“You had almost a 700-polnt rally from Marchlupuntll the end of last week." noted Larry Lawler, head of stock trading at Dreyfus Corp. "That is a big move in a short [>c-riod of time, so you get a little pullback.” ■
Tiie Standard & Poor's 500-stock Index, which unlike the Dow Industrials includes nil the big Nasdaq technology stocks, fell 31.87, or 2.83%. to 12G2.14. For the year, it still is up‘2.CS%, and the Nasdaq Composite Is up 5.91%.
The Industrial average’s drop was the 1 llh biggest jralnt-drop ever, but not one of the biggest in percentage terms. The optimists pointed out that two good 100-polnt moves would pul It back on lite doorstep of 11)000. But they tended to add that, with earnings season upon us, such a Jump is a lot less likely than it was earlier in the month, when falling Interest rales were crealingcxcltementovcrstocks.	'
The (all of more than ISO points In (lie Dow industrials triggered the so-called uptick rule, restricting certain types of computer-driven program trading.
The average share of stock listed on the New York stock Exchange fell $142, or 2.40%, to $45.61.
World-wide, stocks declined In dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index fell*. 15 points to 205.73.
Inmajorniarketaction:
Stocks fell. On the Big Board, where 808.7 million shares t raded, Just G78 stocks rose and 2,357 fell.	•
Bonds rose. The bellwether 30-year Treasury bond gained ?•, or $3.75 per $1,000 bond face-value, pulling the yield backto5.538%.
The dollar fell. Late In New York, It traded at $1.0915 to lhe euro and 1 IS.08 yen to the dollar, from $1.0907 and 118.15 yen.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.