Blue Chips Jump 227.64 Points; Labor, GDP Data Fuel Optimism
By E.S. Browning
Wall Street Journal; Oct 29, 1999; ProQuest
pg. C.1
Blue Chips Jump 227.64 Points; Labor, GDP Data Fuel Optimism
By E.S. BROWNING
•Sla//Reporter a/Tim Wall Stum Journal The Dow Jones Industrial Average staged Its strongest percentage gain since March, as a wave of optimism swept through thestock market following news of moderate third-quarter gains In inflation and labor costs.
Many Investors still believe that the Federal Reserve will raise its interest-rate target by another quarter point on Nov. 16. But now they are hoping that the Fed will be able to leave rates alone for a while afterward. Some even think the Fed may avoid raising rates In November.
in the fourth-heavlest trading day ever on the New York Stock Exchange, the Dow industrials advanced 227.64 points, or 2.197c, to 10622.53, the highest percentage rise since they put on 2.84% on March 5, and the fourth-hlghest percentage gain of the year.
The btue-chlp Index still stands 6% below Ils Aug. 25 record. But the Nasdaq Composite Index, heavy in popular technology stocks, now has zoomed to wilhin . 40.76 points, or 1.4%, of Its Oct. II record ' close of 2915.95. Yesterday, it rose 72.70, or 2.59%, at 2875.22.
Bonds also soared and the dollar was mixed.
"It was a good, continued, nice, solid
The Dow’s Performance
DJIA al 5-minute Intervals yesterday
rally." said Larry Lawler, head of slock trading at Dreyfus Corp, lie noted three signs that the strength could continue: heavy volume driven by buyers, more than twice as many stocks advancing as declining, and the once-beleaguered banking sector leading the recovery.
"I'm not saying the Dow is going to break out and trade back to new highs, but people got more confident that things are going to be OK," he said.
On Monday, the composition of the Dow Janes Industrial Average changes, with Microsoft and three olhcrstocks replacing fourcurrent components. If the new stocks
had been included yesterday, theoretically. the average would have risen more than 277 points.
Investors liked yesterday’s report of a lower-than-cxpected gain In third-quarter employment costs, a figure Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan watches closely. Third-quarter gross domestic product also showed less Inflation than expected.
Revisions in past numbers also suggested hlgher-than-reported productivity gains, also good news for inflation and interest rates, said Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer at mutual-fund group Waddell & Reed of Overland Park. Kan.
Investors had feared a half-point rise In interest rates next month, or repeated boosts in the future. But now, "the data are leading people to conclude that the chances of a halt-point hike are no longer even In the picture," Mr. Herrmann said. "And 1 think there Is some thought that this one will be the Iasi."
Mr. Greenspan, however, sent mixed signals In a speech to corporate chief executives last night. While he suggested he needs to see more evidence the economy Is slowing In order to keep the Fed from raising rates next month, he left open the possibility that no further Fed action would be needed to contain Inflationary pressures. "The process of containment may already be significantly advanced.” Mr. Greenspan said.
Yesterday's good economic news "ere-
Please Turn to Page Cll. column 5
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Industrials Jump 227.64 Points
““Traders satlfillaCsome orWdufresadyS
Continual From Page Cl nted a ministampede” among people who had been holding money out of the market, noted Michael Clark, head of U.S. stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. "It caught some people flat-footed, especially in the financial group where some people were underrepresented." People Jumped into beaten-down technology stocks as well, he said.
American Express advanced almost 77c. Citigroup went up more than 5%. and Merrill Lynch jumped almost 5%.
Tills isn't Uic first time stocks have surged on hopes that an anticipated inter* est-rate Increase would be the last. Something similar happened In June and In August. Stocks hit new highs alter the Fed raised rales in both those months, only to fall back after new economic data suggested more rate Increases to come.
Mr. Herrmann said he thinks that scenario could ploy out again, because he considers the economy stronger than most people think. But investors aren't worrying about that yet.
late-day gains were fueled by rumors that some market participants had learned that the labor-cost number would be favorable.
While the Industrials now are up less * than 16% for 1999, the Nasdaq composite is up more than 31%. The broad Standard & Poor's 5O0-stock index, which yesterday rose 45.73 points, or 3.53%, to 1342.44, Is up a more modest 9% for 1999.
The Industrials' gain was the year's fourth-hlghest in point terms and fifth- ‘ highest in percentage terms.
The average share of stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange rose $1.35, or 3.12%, toS44.6l.	’
World-wide, stocks advanced In dollar terms. ExcludingU.S. stocks, the Dow Jones World Stock Index rose 1.44 points to 154.82.
In major market action:
Stocks advanced. On the Big Board, where 1.12 billion shares traded, 2,193 stocks advanced and 910 declined.
Bonds gained. The bellwether 30-year Treasury bond rose 11/32, or $10.3125 for a $1,000 bond, pulling the yield down to 0.247%.
The dollar was mixed. Late in New. York, it traded at $1.0515 to the euro and 105.05 yen to the dollar, weakening from $1.0507 and strengthening from 104.25 yen.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.