5/26/2017
Wary Money Managers Dip Toes Into Tech Pool But Stick With the More Buoyant Larger Issues - ProQuest
More like this + Wary Money Managers Dip Toes Into Tech Pool But Stick With the More Buoyant Larger Issues
By Suzanne McGee and Kara Scannell ;>;. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Apr 2000: C1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Mr. [Larry] Puglia was warily buying blue-chip technology stocks such as Cisco Systems, Nokia and Texas Instruments. Many of the stocks, after oscillating in price through the day, suddenly soared in the final hour of regular trading. Texas Instruments surged $24.50 to $156.50 a share and Nokia climbed $5.0625 to $50 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading; Cisco climbed $9.50 to $66.50 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
Indeed, amid the heavy buying were a lot of worried investors. The strong rebound in the Nasdaq Composite Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average was met with as much wariness as elation by money managers. But they still had enough free cash to push up their favorite big-technology stocks, which have become a sort of defensive play; because they have earnings and because they are such big parts of the indexes, managers figure everybody has to own some of them.
Mr. [Marc] Klee was picking at semiconductor stocks, which helped lead the Nasdaq Composite Index out of the doldrums in the final hour of trading. "Semiconductors for us are the single most attractive part of the market," Mr. Klee said. He was already nibbling at stocks such as Cypress Semiconductor, Micron Technology and Integrated Device Technology.
Full Text Translate
Larry Puglia, a portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price Associates, cautiously joined the flight to tech quality yesterday -- and watched with surprise as it turned into a stampede.
Mr. Puglia was warily buying blue-chip technology stocks such as Cisco Systems, Nokia and Texas Instruments. Many of the stocks, after oscillating in price through the day, suddenly soared in the final hour of regular trading. Texas Instruments surged $24.50 to $156.50 a share and Nokia climbed $5.0625 to $50 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading; Cisco climbed $9.50 to $66.50 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
This wasn't what Mr. Puglia was expecting after Friday's market rout.
"I'm a little surprised to see the market bounce back so nicely," he said. "We were trying not to get overly depressed [last week] and [we're] trying not to get overexuberant as the market is going well today. In fact, it would probably be best for the market if it" hadn't bounced back so strongly, Mr. Puglia said.
Indeed, amid the heavy buying were a lot of worried investors. The strong rebound in the Nasdaq Composite Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average was met with as much wariness as elation by money managers. But they still had enough free cash to push up their favorite big-technology stocks, which have become a sort of defensive play; because they have earnings and because they are such big parts of the indexes, managers figure everybody has to own some of them.
Like Mr. Puglia, Marc Klee, manager of the $2.3 billion John Hancock Technology Fund, arrived at the office with a "wish list" of stocks and began some cautious buying.
"You want to tread lightly and be very systematic," Mr. Klee said. "You put only one toe in the water at a time, and you go straight to the safe-haven stocks," he said, even though he thinks "eventually, technology will resume its mantle of leadership."
Mr. Klee was picking at semiconductor stocks, which helped lead the Nasdaq Composite Index out of the doldrums in the final hour of trading. "Semiconductors for us are the single most attractive part of the market," Mr. Klee said. He was already nibbling at stocks such as Cypress Semiconductor, Micron Technology and Integrated Device Technology.
While the buyers triumphed in the end yesterday, for much of the day, there were sellers on the rebounds to match the buyers on the dips, and stock prices oscillated. Hedge-fund manager Seth Tobias of Circle T Partners spent yesterday selling blue-chip tech stocks such as Cisco and Sun Microsystems that he had bought during Friday's severe market plunge. He said he would rather miss the first stage of the next rally than run the risk of being caught in another bloodbath.
"At any moment, we could go into another wicked sell-off like we had on Friday," Mr. Tobias said. "This is a period when hedge-fund managers in particular should be focusing on preserving their capital rather than on being a hero."
Buyers sounded less confident than sellers. Michael Eggly, manager of the Northern Technology Fund at Northern Trust, bought some stocks yesterday morning that he had missed before the big tech rally late last year. Those included Global Crossing, a telecommunications company that by Friday had fallen 54% from its 52-week high. The stock yesterday declined 25 cents to $27.875 in 4 p.m. Nasdaq trading.
"We've done some selective nibbling, but that's about all," Mr. Eggly said. "It would be prudent to at least have the belief that we might see a bottom to this market before we start jumping back in."
Moreover, "short covering" -- when investors who have sold borrowed shares as a bearish bet buy back stock to repay the loan -- appears to have been muted because shorts seem to expect more gains to come. Jon Olesky, head stock trader at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said that for short-covering to intensify, short sellers would need more conviction that the market's retreat had ended.
Earnings reports will help investors sort through the technology-stock universe in search of technology bargains.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398746860/1383F3ABDA44904FE06/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017
Wary Money Managers Dip Toes Into Tech Pool But Stick With the More Buoyant Larger Issues - ProQuest
At Scudder Technology Fund, co-lead portfolio manager Brooks Dougherty has bought additional shares of Juniper Networks during the recent market melee. Juniper's stock price rose 9.2% yesterday to $172.5625 on Nasdaq but was still far below from its 52-week high of nearly $313. "Their earnings report was phenomenal," he said of Juniper's quarterly results released last Thursday evening. "We love this company."
Not everyone who wanted to buy could do so. In Seattle, Bill Whitlow, manager of Safeco Northwest Fund, spent the day "just watching" the performance of large tech stocks like Microsoft and Intel, and a baker's dozen of tiny dot.coms in his portfolio such as WebTrends and WatchGuard Technologies.
"It would be really difficult to sell some of those kinds of companies right now" at their depressed prices, he said. Not that he is looking for an exit. In fact, he wants to buy. But with little cash to spend at the moment -- he has just 1.8% of assets in cash -- he isn't able to go bargain-hunting.
Jeff D. Opdyke contributed to this article.
Credit: Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Word count: 872
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Apr 18, 2000
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
L_l Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Internet stocks
U Securities markets
LJ Dow Jones averages
U NASDAQ trading
U Heard on the street (wsj)
Search
Ebook Central e-books
1.	Clinical Anesthesia, 7e : Print + Ebook with Multimedia
AnMthaai
2.	Encyclopedia of Country Music (2)
Encyclopedia of Insects (2)
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398746860/1383F3ABDA44904FE06/3?accountid=14026
2/2