5/26/2017
Bears Maul Stocks as Dow Drops 379.21 Points --- Blue Chips Near 10000 as Nasdaq Hits Year's Low - ProQuest
More like this + Bears Maul Stocks as Dow Drops 379.21 Points --- Blue Chips Near 10000 as Nasdaq Hits Year's Low
By Greg Ip. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]13 Oct 2000: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The warning also was notable for shaking faith in the premium blue-chip growth company. Home Depot remains "a great retailer with a resilient management team," PaineWebber analyst Aram Rubinson wrote. "What has changed is the Street's sense that the company is infallible."
While the market is a long way from the 20% drop in the blue-chip averages that typically marks a bear market, the possibility is getting more attention. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 2.6%, or 34.81 points, to 1329.78, dropping below its April low and leaving it 12.9% below its March peak. But a closer examination of the S&P 500 shows that its decline is still mostly a technology event. Microsoft is down 55% from its 52-week high, Intel 51%, Cisco Systems 39%, and America Online 46%. By comparison, General Electric is off just 9%, American International Group 8% and Merck 5%.
"We're starting to see capitulation selling," said Erik Gustafson, senior portfolio manager at Stein Roe & Farnham. "We saw it across the whole market -- people selling businesses with unbelievable fundamentals. Names like Corning, Nortel, Cisco are being trashed." He waded in at the end of the day, buying shares in JDS Uniphase, Cisco and Foundry Networks. Indeed, for all the angst over the earnings outlook, analysts have only lowered their expected growth rate for the technology companies in the S&P 500 next year to 22% from 23% in July, according to First Call.
Full Text Translate
The bear that has mauled technology stocks has begun to sink its claws into the rest of the market.
A toxic mixture of political tension in the Middle East and the eroding profit picture at home washed over stocks yesterday. The bad news sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average into a 3.6% tailspin and the already reeling Nasdaq Composite Index to its lowest level of the year.
Stunned by an earnings warning by index component Home Depot, the Dow industrials fell 379.21 points -- which isn't historic in percentage terms but stands as the fifth-largest point loss ever -- to 10034.58, its sixth-straight losing session.
The Dow, now down 14.4% from its January high, stands no higher than it did in April of last year.
"I think this is a more-profound test of the market than we saw in the fall of 1998, the fall of 1999 and the spring of this year," said Jon Olesky, head of listed stock trading at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. Unlike those short-lived "crisis" periods, "this is a test of the market that is based on the backbone of the market, which is the economy."
The technology-led Nasdaq, which at one point had clambered up 80.6 points yesterday from Wednesday's drubbing, succumbed in the afternoon, sinking nearly 3%, or 93.81 points, to 3074.68, below the previous low of the year of 3164.55, hit May 23.
The Nasdaq index is now down 39% since its March high, and back to the levels of last November. It fell despite a lack of any notable new earnings warnings in the tech sector. In fact, optical-networking-equipment maker Corning said its earnings would be higher than expected. Though its stock rose on the New York Stock Exchange, the news did little to help its peers.
However, a flare-up of tensions in the Middle East and the resulting spike in oil prices -- benchmark crude futures shot up $2.81 to $36.06 a barrel and at one point were above $37 -- continued to undermine investors' faith in the economic outlook, a faith that already has been shaken as one after another of their favorite companies warns earnings won't be as rosy as expected.
Of course, it might be an overreaction. There is no sign of recession (other than the falling stock market) and expected profit growth has actually fallen only slightly.
On the other hand, the catalysts that have reversed previous corrections appear absent at present. In the fall of 1998 the Federal Reserve eased to solve a debt-market crunch, and in late 1999 it stopped raising rates out of Y2K concerns. Last spring's correction mostly hit speculative stocks. The difference this time is that earnings are failing to meet outsized expectations, and with energy prices rising, the Fed has limited room to cut interest rates.
As a result, more stocks are being swept into a downturn that began in technology. Yesterday declining issues outnumbered advancers on both the New York Stock Exchange and on Nasdaq by nearly 3 to 1. Stocks finished near their lows of the day, a poor indicator of sentiment for today's opening.
Home Depot's warning was unsettling because it hints that many companies could be at risk from a slowing economy, not just technology concerns, whose problems are more of not meeting excessive expectations than of serious business setbacks. Home Depot management said the problem was lower lumber and building- materials prices, not the economy.
But Wall Street didn't appear to buy that. "Almost like clockwork, five quarters after the Fed started raising rates, both Home Depot and Lowe's have seen a negative impact to their business," said Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin said.
The warning also was notable for shaking faith in the premium blue-chip growth company. Home Depot remains "a great retailer with a resilient management team," PaineWebber analyst Aram Rubinson wrote. "What has changed is the Street's sense that the company is infallible."
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398718753/1383F40D7047E03DC22/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017
Bears Maul Stocks as Dow Drops 379.21 Points --- Blue Chips Near 10000 as Nasdaq Hits Year's Low - ProQuest
While the market is a long way from the 20% drop in the blue-chip averages that typically marks a bear market, the possibility is getting more attention. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 2.6%, or 34.81 points, to 1329.78, dropping below its April low and leaving it 12.9% below its March peak. But a closer examination of the S&P 500 shows that its decline is still mostly a technology event. Microsoft is down 55% from its 52-week high, Intel 51%, Cisco Systems 39%, and America Online 46%. By comparison, General Electric is off just 9%, American International Group 8% and Merck 5%.
Those drops are taking much of the air out of technology stocks' once huge valuations. At 94, Cisco's price/earnings ratio is back in double-digits for the first time since the middle of last year. Intel's P/E is roughly equal to that of Exxon Mobil.
"We're starting to see capitulation selling," said Erik Gustafson, senior portfolio manager at Stein Roe & Farnham. "We saw it across the whole market -- people selling businesses with unbelievable fundamentals. Names like Corning, Nortel, Cisco are being trashed." He waded in at the end of the day, buying shares in JDS Uniphase, Cisco and Foundry Networks. Indeed, for all the angst over the earnings outlook, analysts have only lowered their expected growth rate for the technology companies in the S&P 500 next year to 22% from 23% in July, according to First Call.
Even some skeptics are starting to see values in some stocks. Fred Hickey, editor of High Tech Strategist newsletter and a bear on almost everything tech related, said some companies, such as Allaire, down 93% from its high and Inprise, down 79%, are valued at little more than the cash on their balance sheets.
But there remain significant obstacles for a tech rebound. The first is selling by mutual funds to take capital losses to offset capital gains before their fiscal year ends Oct. 31. "You're going to see \[tax-related selling\] by a lot of tech funds," said Steve Salopek, manager of Banc One's One Group Technology Fund. "They took a lot of gains earlier in the year from the strong fourth quarter of last year. With a lot of tech funds down for the year, you don't want to pay out any capital gains if you can prevent that."
Mr. Salopek said he has recently sold four or five of the 70 stocks in his portfolio to take tax losses, whereas in previous years he had few losing positions on which to take such losses. Candidates for such selling, he noted, are stocks down the most, such as Microsoft, Intel and countless Internet stocks.
He said institutional tax-loss selling should end by early November, but by December, individual investors may start dumping their losers ahead of the Dec. 31 year end.
The other major hurdle for investors is the prospect of more negative earnings news. Bulls expected stocks to bounce, as companies who didn't issue profit warnings reported earnings that met or beat analysts' estimates. But instead, many companies may use those positive reports to send cautionary signals about future periods. Both Motorola and Yahoo! did just that, resulting in cuts to analysts' profit estimates and a shellacking of their stocks.
"What that tells me is for the next two weeks when we hear from the rest of the companies in the S&P 500, you have potentially a tremendous amount of risk," Mr. Olesky said. "If they all tell a story like Motorola, that is a different kind of risk in earnings than we're used to seeing" during the normally upbeat reporting season.
Stocks fell and bonds rose. The 10-year Treasury note rose 15/32, or $4.69 for each $1,000, pushing the yield down to 5.707%. The 30-year bond was up 7/32 to yield 5.807%.
The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 86.24 cents to the euro and 107.59 yen to the dollar, strengthening from 86.93 cents and unchanged from 107.59 yen.
Philana Patterson contributed to this article.
(See related article: "Fund Strategies Exist for Those Daring Investors" -- WSJ Oct. 13, 2000)
Credit: Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Word count: 1349
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Oct 13, 2000
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Stock prices
U Dow Jones averages
U NASDAQ trading
U Daily markets (wsj)
Search
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398718753/1383F40D7047E03DC22/3?accountid=14026
2/2