5/26/2017
Surprise Rate Cut Spurs Monster Rally --- Nasdaq Surges Record 14.17%; S&P Rises 5.01% - ProQuest
More like this + Surprise Rate Cut Spurs Monster Rally --- Nasdaq Surges Record 14.17%; S&P Rises 5.01%
By E.S. Browning. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Jan 2001: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
For consumers and their home-mortgage rates, the irony is that the Fed rate-cut might not be terrific news. Why? Because mortgage rates generally are linked to the 10year Treasury note, not to Fed benchmark rates. Treasury yields had already fallen in recent months, in anticipation of the Fed move. Yesterday, Treasury yields took a big jump, and that could mean higher mortgage rates in the short run. If bond investors start to see signs of economic recovery, bond yields will continue to rise, even if the Fed is continuing to cut rates.
Meanwhile, many traders and investors, including Messrs. [John O'Donoghue] and [James Weiss], warned that the stock market could see more difficult days despite this one-day surge. The Nasdaq composite in particular has put in a series of record-setting one-day percentage gains during the past year, only to give back all those gains and more in the following days. The latest example, on Dec. 5, came after Mr. [Alan Greenspan] first hinted that he planned to cut rates. What is more, few of the fundamental problems that have sent technology stocks into a bear market in the past year, including soft earnings growth and weakening demand, have gone away.
The Nasdaq composite still is in a bear market, defined as a 20% drop from a high, although the Dow industrials and the S&P 500 aren't. The Nasdaq composite is down 48% from its high of 5048.62, hit on March 10 of last year. The S&P 500 is down 12% from its record and the Dow Jones industrials are off a more-moderate 6.6% from their record close, which occurred almost one year ago, on Jan. 14, 2000.
Full Text Translate
The stock market got exactly what it wanted from Alan Greenspan, and the result was a mammoth rally.
The Federal Reserve's announcement of a surprise interest-rate cut, at just before 1:15 p.m. Eastern Standard Time yesterday, touched off a record 14.17% rise in the Nasdaq Composite Index, some of the strongest gains of the past year for other major stock indexes, and a shattering of U.S. trading-volume records.
The rise in the Nasdaq composite, full of beleaguered technology stocks, was the biggest in both percentage and point terms since the index was created in 1971. Then again, the index has been shattering daily records for movements both up and down: The previous record was the 10.48% gain it registered less than one month ago, on Dec. 5.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 2.81% yesterday, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.01%.
"This is the Fed putting an exclamation point on their commitment to try to engineer a soft economic landing," said James Weiss, chief investment officer for stocks at Boston mutual-fund group State Street Research. He called it "dramatic," "striking" and "very significant."
"I've been doing this since 1981 or 1982 and I've never seen the Fed do anything like that," said John O'Donoghue, co-head of listed trading at Credit Suisse First Boston.
For consumers and their home-mortgage rates, the irony is that the Fed rate-cut might not be terrific news. Why? Because mortgage rates generally are linked to the 10year Treasury note, not to Fed benchmark rates. Treasury yields had already fallen in recent months, in anticipation of the Fed move. Yesterday, Treasury yields took a big jump, and that could mean higher mortgage rates in the short run. If bond investors start to see signs of economic recovery, bond yields will continue to rise, even if the Fed is continuing to cut rates.
Meanwhile, many traders and investors, including Messrs. O'Donoghue and Weiss, warned that the stock market could see more difficult days despite this one-day surge. The Nasdaq composite in particular has put in a series of record-setting one-day percentage gains during the past year, only to give back all those gains and more in the following days. The latest example, on Dec. 5, came after Mr. Greenspan first hinted that he planned to cut rates. What is more, few of the fundamental problems that have sent technology stocks into a bear market in the past year, including soft earnings growth and weakening demand, have gone away.
Mr. O'Donoghue said he actually worried that "the fact that the Fed took such an unprecedented move" could be "telling you that the economy is in worse shape than we think."
Yet that worry was far from most traders' minds yesterday. All the major indexes more than gained back the big losses they suffered the day before, on the year's first trading day. The Nasdaq composite's 324.83-point rally put it at 2616.69, the first time it ever has advanced more than 300 points in a day. The Dow Jones industrials jumped 299.60 points to 10945.75, again flirting with a return above the 11000 level.
Treasury bonds, for their part, gave back all their huge opening-day gains and more, as money flooded away from their relative safety and back into riskier investments such as Internet stocks, network-equipment makers, online-brokerage firms and computer makers.
JDS Uniphase leapt 37%, Internet auction site eBay soared 30%, network computer-maker Sun Microsystems jumped 30% and Cisco Systems surged 24%. The 40-stock Dow Jones Internet Index gained 19.9%. Financial stocks, which benefit from interest-rate reductions, also gained. J.P. Morgan Chase, formed Tuesday by the merger of the two banks, advanced nearly 16% on its second day of trading.
So-called defensive stocks such as utility concerns and makers of drugs, diapers, cigarettes and soft drinks all sagged. They had posted strong gains earlier as investors sought refuge in their relatively steady earnings prospects, and they suffered the same fate as bonds.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398792276/1383F483C6443366C07/3?accountid=14026
1/3
5/26/2017
Surprise Rate Cut Spurs Monster Rally --- Nasdaq Surges Record 14.17%; S&P Rises 5.01% - ProQuest
The dollar soared against the euro as money flowed into U.S. stocks. Ordinarily, a rate cut makes a currency less attractive to hold, but the flow of money into U.S. stocks offset that factor.
After leveling off briefly in mid-afternoon, the buying of stocks surged again at the end of the day. Instead of selling out and taking profits, many once-cautious investors rushed to jump aboard the bandwagon and put money back to work in stocks.
"The fact that the market held near its high for the day was quite encouraging," said Bill Schneider, head of stock trading at UBS Warburg. "Throughout the day, it was being impacted by new buyers coming in. I think this has shaken some money off the sidelines and given a reason for people to put some cash to work."
Investors also were impressed by the fact that the gains came on record volumes, which can be a sign that they are based on a real shift in investor sentiment. The Nasdaq Stock Market's volume surpassed three billion for the first time, at 3.09 billion shares. On the New York Stock Exchange, a record 1.86 billion shares changed hands. (The numbers aren't directly comparable because the two markets measure volume in different ways.)
Optimists say that yesterday's gains were different in another important way: Mr. Greenspan took real and surprisingly strong action, and indicated that he is prepared to keep acting to ensure that the economy avoids a recession.
Investors perceived the surprise announcement as a firm statement from the Fed chief that he personally was stepping into the breach. His prestige is such that the reaction was near-euphoria.
What gives many investors pause is the fact that the economic outlook didn't magically change just because Mr. Greenspan announced a half-percentage-point reduction in the rate at which banks lend one another money overnight.
The Nasdaq composite still is in a bear market, defined as a 20% drop from a high, although the Dow industrials and the S&P 500 aren't. The Nasdaq composite is down 48% from its high of 5048.62, hit on March 10 of last year. The S&P 500 is down 12% from its record and the Dow Jones industrials are off a more-moderate 6.6% from their record close, which occurred almost one year ago, on Jan. 14, 2000.
Many traders and investors cautioned that companies will be announcing fourth-quarter earnings in a matter of days, and some of the news will be ugly. Analysts still fear that demand for computers, semiconductors and networking equipment could be disappointing for months to come, regardless of what the Fed chairman does.
Some investors pointed to the events of Dec. 5, after Mr. Greenspan's speech hinting that he might cut rates this year. The Nasdaq composite put in a percentage gain that stood as the biggest ever, until yesterday. The Dow industrials leapt 3.21%, more than they gained yesterday.
And then, in the following two weeks, stocks gave back all those gains in the face of disappointing economic and earnings news. Some investors fear that same fate could await yesterday's rally.
"We have created a heck of a lot of overcapacity in the realm of technology, and it is not going to be quickly done away with," warned Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer at mutual-fund group Waddell & Reed, in Overland Park, Kan. "The earnings issues and the issue of what the true growth rate is [for technology spending] are going to come back into play. The Internet story and the tech story are just riddled with a lot of legitimate questions about what the true growth rate is. I just don't expect huge
strength in the world of tech."
If Mr. Greenspan is successful in preventing recession, most market analysts say, then the market, and in particular the beaten-down tech group, can hope to keep putting in strong gains. But there isn't any guarantee that a recession can be prevented.
Some investors pointed to the period from 1989 through 1990, when a belated Fed effort to cut interest rates didn't prevent a recession. In fact, President-elect Bush's father, former President George Bush, is said to blame Mr. Greenspan's handling of the economy in part for his own electoral defeat in 1992.
Some traders thought Mr. Greenspan was trying to avoid any such criticism this time, and also trying to avoid a problem he faced in 1998, when he staged a surprise quarter-point rate cut in September, only to be obliged to reduce them again by another quarter point when markets couldn't hold their gains after the first cut.
Indeed, the Fed move this time was surprising on two counts: both the amount of the reduction and its timing. Some analysts had expected a quarter-point rate cut tomorrow, after employment data were released and before the Fed's next policy meeting on Jan. 30 and 31. Others had expected the Fed to wait for month's end and then announce a half-point reduction. Many had expected just a quarter-point cut at the end of the month. No one expected such a big reduction so soon.
"They want to make it clear that they are on the case and have no intention to let us slide into a recession if they can possibly help it," said Mr. Weiss of State Street Research. "It also is clear that this is the first of a series of rate cuts."
He said he doesn't expect a recession this year, and never did expect one. But he does expect the economy to continue suffering through a tough slowdown, with more market gyrations as a result. Although consumers might begin spending more money in response to the Fed news, "the Fed cutting interest rates won't affect the fundamental economy for six to nine months. It doesn't address how negative earnings will be for the fourth quarter of 2000, which is about to be reported, and in the first half of this year. The market will be grappling with that."
What stocks will benefit if the economy can avoid recession and the stock market can sustain its gains? All of the stocks that suffered last year.
"It does make you feel more confident in holding what you have than feeling you ought to raise more cash," Mr. Weiss said. "And I think it clearly supports technology. I think it supports retail. You are going to see, for a period of time here, weakness in health care, energy and consumer staples, because that is where people have been hiding."
Yesterday's big decliners were drug stocks, such as Merck, diaper makers such as Procter & Gamble, energy stocks such as Exxon Mobil and natural-gas concerns such as Duke Energy, all of which had been up.
Investors, for their part, clearly were hoping that, even if some volatility remains, the worst of the market's pain is past.
"We've just walked through the threshold," said Stuart Freeman, chief stock strategist at St. Louis brokerage firm A.G. Edwards & Sons. "This rate cut is the catalyst to get everything moving in the right direction."
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398792276/1383F483C6443366C07/3?accountid=14026
2/3
5/26/2017
Surprise Rate Cut Spurs Monster Rally --- Nasdaq Surges Record 14.17%; S&P Rises 5.01% - ProQuest
IPO investors may have reason to be encouraged. Hopes spread that initial public offerings of stock, which faded as the tech sector sagged, could be revived if stocks are perceived to have hit a bottom.
One big question is whether mutual funds, pension funds, hedge funds and other professional investment vehicles will continue moving money off the sidelines and back into the tech stocks they fled last year. If they don't, the skeptics worried, this could be just one more flash-in-the-pan rally, followed by yet another slump.
Overall, the market value of all U.S. stocks still is down 16% on paper, or about $2.72 trillion, at about $14.24 trillion, since its high of about $16.96 trillion on March 24, 2000, based on the market value of the companies in the Wilshire 5000 index. However, the market's total value rose yesterday by about $708.8 billion, or 5.24%, based on the Wilshire 5000, which includes about 7,200 companies, or nearly every publicly traded company with headquarters in the U.S.
Stocks advanced. On the Big Board, 2,296 stocks advanced and 780 declined.
Treasury bonds fell heavily. The 10-year Treasury note declined 1 27/32, or $18.44 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to the bond's price, rose to 5.142%. The 30-year bond was down 2 12/32 to yield 5.489%.
The dollar was mixed. Late in New York, it traded at 92.88 cents to the euro and 113.65 yen to the dollar, strengthening from 94.98 cents and weakening from 114.49 yen.
(See related article: "Rate Cuts Lead To Good Times, History Shows" -- WSJ Jan. 4, 2001
Credit: Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Word count: 2104
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Jan 4, 2001
More like this
n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Dow Jones averages
U Stock prices
U NASDAQ trading
U Daily markets (wsj)
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Hutchinson Chronology of World History, Volume 4
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398792276/1383F483C6443366C07/3?accountid=14026
3/3