5/26/2017 Tokyo's Slide Is Latest Concern for U.S. Stocks --- Nikkei's 3.2% Fall Spoils Recovery; Dow Declines 4.1% as Fears Grow For Broader Economic Slow...
More like this + Tokyo's Slide Is Latest Concern for U.S. Stocks --- Nikkei's 3.2% Fall Spoils Recovery; Dow Declines 4.1% as Fears Grow For Broader Economic Slowdown By Craig Karmin in New York and Sebastian Moffett in Tokyo. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Sep 2002: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Tokyo's 3.2% decline in the Nikkei Stock Average helped trigger a world-wide stock market rout, heightening concerns about a sluggish global economy and underscoring investor nervousness as the anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S. approaches.
Mr. [Steve Auth] said the global mood began to sour Friday, when Tokyo revised lower its first-quarter gross domestic product numbers, renewing fears that Japan's recession is lingering. Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's cabinet also appears to be stalling on reforms, such as those needed to clear up the banks' bad loan problems. The Japanese government -- normally swift to step in with measures to prop up the market -- through Tuesday hadn't taken action.
"Japan's recovery is very heavily dependent on the U.S. recovery," said Federated's Mr. Auth, who has been selling Japan and buying South Korean shares in their place. "While other parts of Asia -- Korea, Thailand, China -- are showing signs of internal growth."
Full Text Translate
FOREIGN MARKETS usually take their cue from the U.S. Yesterday, the opposite happened.
Japanese stocks fell to their lowest level in nearly two decades, once again dashing hopes for a Japanese economic recovery and raising fears about a broader economic slowdown in the rest of the world.
Tokyo's 3.2% decline in the Nikkei Stock Average helped trigger a world-wide stock market rout, heightening concerns about a sluggish global economy and underscoring investor nervousness as the anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S. approaches.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 4.1%, or 355.45 points, to close at 8308.05, while the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index lost 4.2%, or 38.05 points, to end at 878.02. The Nasdaq Composite Index, meanwhile, fell 3.9%, or 51.01 points, to end at 1263.84.
Treasury bonds soared, driving the yield on the 10-year Treasury note to 3.967%, its lowest level in 39 years.
European markets hardly fared better. Frankfurt's Xetra Dax Index slid 5.8% in its worst day this year, while other major markets in Europe also fell by 3% to 4.5%. The Dow Jones Stoxx index of 600 European blue-chip stocks retreated 3.9% and has now shed 10% since its Aug. 22 high.
"People are really just edgy right now," said Steve Auth, chief investment officer for Federated Investors in New York. "Markets are in the process of trying to form a bottom because there's no real reason for them to be moving up."
Mr. Auth said the global mood began to sour Friday, when Tokyo revised lower its first-quarter gross domestic product numbers, renewing fears that Japan's recession is lingering. Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's cabinet also appears to be stalling on reforms, such as those needed to clear up the banks' bad loan problems. The Japanese government -- normally swift to step in with measures to prop up the market -- through Tuesday hadn't taken action.
Yesterday's drop brought the Nikkei down 304.59 points, to 9217.04, its lowest level since September 1983. The market has fallen about 75% since reaching 38915.87, its peak at the end of 1989.
The fall comes at an especially sensitive time for Japanese companies, which must close their books for the financial half-year at the end of this month. The depressed stock prices could leave many companies -- already bruised from years of economic slump -- with damaging losses to their portfolio valuations. Bank stocks, which were among the hardest hit yesterday, look especially vulnerable.
The sell-off "all starts with a lack of confidence in the banks," said John Trammell, president of Investor Select Advisors, a fund that invests in hedge funds specializing in Asia. "With a slowdown in the economy and a decline in the Nikkei it looks like a double-whammy for Japan's banks."
Japan's frail banks have large holdings of stocks in their portfolios, and falls in the market eat into their capital base. Many have capital-asset ratios that are only slightly over the 8% international requirement. Even Japan's biggest lenders could see capital fall below minimum requirements if the broad Topix stock index dips below 800 points, estimates Merrill Lynch bank analyst Yoshinobu Yamada. The Topix fell 2.8% yesterday to close at 904.24.
Concerns over capital shortages could create a spiral of bad sentiment towards bank stocks. Worry about falls in their capital base causes selling, which sparks a wider softening of stock-market prices. That in turn devalues the banks' stock portfolios, causing more worries. Bank stocks fell the most yesterday. Mizuho's shares fell 9.2%, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.'s shares dropped 7.9%.
"There is a risk of a vicious spiral involving banks," said Garry Evans, chief strategist at HSBC Securities in Tokyo. "Where is the bottom? There's no road map for where we are now."
The fall follows a flurry of grim news on Japan's economy. Mr. Koizumi's cabinet appears to be stalling on reforms, such as those needed to clear up the banks' bad-loan problems. Economic news from the U.S. has been gloomy.
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398869784/1 383F 7CC85E561 BBAB6/3?accountid=1 4026
1/2
5/26/2017 Tokyo's Slide Is Latest Concern for U.S. Stocks --- Nikkei's 3.2% Fall Spoils Recovery; Dow Declines 4.1% as Fears Grow For Broader Economic Slow...
Some analysts said they weren't that alarmed by the drop in the Japanese market yesterday, noting there were various causes that could have triggered shares to fall. "The
macro economy is not as bad as it was in March," when concerns of a financial crisis had mounted, said Kathy Matsui, chief Japan strategist at Goldman Sachs in Tokyo.
"Bankruptcies have been stabilizing, and we are looking for the global economy to stabilize."
And even after yesterday's losses the Nikkei remains one of the world's top-performing markets in what has been another dismal year for stocks. Japanese blue-chips are down just 1.7% year-to-date in dollar terms, compared with losses of 17% for the Dow Jones Industrial Average and 28% for the Dow Jones Stoxx Index of 600 European companies.
But even Tokyo's minor gains are somewhat misleading. The market soared more than 30% over a one-month period in the first quarter -- helped by the government's enactment of restrictions on short selling, or bets that stocks would fall -- rather than on a fundamental revaluation of the economy. As short sellers bought back stocks to close their positions, many foreign investors joined in for the ride. Despite sporadic periods of gains, including a three-week stretch in August, the Japanese market has essentially ground lower since peaking in May.
Nonetheless, investors are bracing for more bad days ahead before a bottom is reached. Mr. Trammell at Investor Select Advisors notes that Tokyo trading volume was about 8% higher yesterday than the daily average. "But my sense is we need to see double that volume before there's any talk of capitulation."
While Japan's vaunted exporters -- the electronics companies and auto makers -- can still thrive with the local economy in recession, signs of a recurring slowdown in the U.S. and increasingly in Europe have weighed on these stocks, too, especially because the yen has appreciated against the dollar this year.
"Japan's recovery is very heavily dependent on the U.S. recovery," said Federated's Mr. Auth, who has been selling Japan and buying South Korean shares in their place. "While other parts of Asia -- Korea, Thailand, China -- are showing signs of internal growth."
(See related article: "Heard on the Street: If Strategists' Profit Forecast Is Right for '03, Dubious Investors Could Get a Pleasant Surprise" -- WSJ Sept. 4, 2002)
Word count: 1051 Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Sep 4, 2002
More like this n
Search ProQuest... /,	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Stock prices
U Dow Jones averages
LJ Daily markets (wsj)
Location
U Japan
Search
Ebook Central e-books
1.
The Global Economy in Turbulent Times (1)
2.
Britannica Concise Encyclopedia (1)
3.	Out of the Box onto Wall Street : Unorthodox Insights on Investments and...
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398869784/1 383F 7CC85E561 BBAB6/3?accountid=1 4026
2/2