5/26/2017 Dow Falls 2.93% In Whipsaw Day As Fear Remains --- Braced for a Big Plunge, Investors Get Seesaw Effect; Optimists Battle Pessimists - ProQuest
More like this + Dow Falls 2.93% In Whipsaw Day As Fear Remains --- Braced for a Big Plunge, Investors Get Seesaw Effect; Optimists Battle Pessimists By E.S. Browning. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 July 2002: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The Dow industrials' 2.93% drop, to 7784.58, prolonged a relentless slide that has knocked 17.6% off the blue-chip average's value in the last 11 trading days. It left the industrials at their lowest level since October 1998. But for all the drama, yesterday's seesaw trading failed again to give investors the one thing they needed most: a clear picture of where the stock market is headed. Many on Wall Street had been hoping for some kind of resolution yesterday -- either a significant drop that would wash out the selling, or a strong recovery. Instead, stocks bounced in both directions, as optimists battled the pessimists.
"The constant selling, with the retail margin selling, is really putting pressure on people's positions," said David Memmott, head of block trading at New York brokerage firm Morgan Stanley. He said signs of improvement in corporate earnings are being ignored, a classic sign that a stock-market recovery is still elusive. Still, he added, traders aren't yet seeing the significant selloff that some analysts have been calling -- even hoping -- for. Such a broad and deep selloff, called a "capitulation," in which the last holdouts dump their losing positions, could signal an end to the declines. Perversely, to some analysts a merely sizable drop such as yesterday's seemed less helpful than one at least twice the size.
Contributing to the decline yesterday were The Wall Street Journal reports that the National Association of Securities Dealers is preparing to take regulatory action against star Salomon Smith Barney telecommunications analyst Jack Grubman, and that Citigroup arranged an unusual financing technique that helped Enron Corp. disguise some debts as trades. Stock in Citigroup, the brokerage firm's parent and a component of the Dow industrials, fell 11%.
Full Text Translate
A whipsaw day of sharp price swings and heavy trading sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 234 points -- yet left the troubles plaguing the market unresolved.
The Dow industrials' 2.93% drop, to 7784.58, prolonged a relentless slide that has knocked 17.6% off the blue-chip average's value in the last 11 trading days. It left the industrials at their lowest level since October 1998. But for all the drama, yesterday's seesaw trading failed again to give investors the one thing they needed most: a clear picture of where the stock market is headed. Many on Wall Street had been hoping for some kind of resolution yesterday -- either a significant drop that would wash out the selling, or a strong recovery. Instead, stocks bounced in both directions, as optimists battled the pessimists.
Bottom-fishing traders looked for bargains, sending stocks up briefly in the morning. But then, mutual-fund companies were forced to sell because many of their investors were trying to cash out, forcing stocks down by day's end.
"Now everything is feeding on itself and people are just getting out," said Todd Leone, head of listed trading at brokerage firm SG Cowen. "It is like a herd mentality. You saw people just dumping stocks -- both professionals and individuals."
The New York Stock Exchange experienced its fourth-heaviest trading day ever -- after seeing its heaviest trading ever on Friday -- and the action was enough to give traders a sore neck.
Friday's drop was the steepest for the Dow industrials since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and yesterday was one of the most turbulent days. As trading began, some investors stepped in to buy stocks they viewed as cheap, and the industrial average was up as many as 84.60 points within minutes of the opening bell.
But soon, the selling pressure overwhelmed the buying, and the industrials began a slide that left them down as many as 301.97 points by lunchtime. After that, the tug of war turned even more robust, as stocks gyrated up and down before finishing with a late-day slide. Much of the volatility, traders said, was generated by program trading by large institutions, computer-driven trades that kick in automatically when stocks rise or fall a certain amount.
It wasn't just the Dow industrials that were hit. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.29%, or 27.90 points, to 819.85. The Nasdaq Composite Index, heavy in technology stocks, was down 2.77%, or 36.50 points, to 1282.65.
The decline hit some significant milestones. Yesterday was the first close below 8000 for the Dow industrials since October 1998, and the 10th trading day of the month that the industrial average has posted a triple-digit fall. The average now has fallen on 10 of 11 trading days since its strong 324-point rally on July 5.
The Nasdaq composite, for its part, is at its first close below 1300 since May 1997, more than five years ago, and is 75% off the record high it hit in March 2000. The Dow industrials are 34% off their record, which also dates from 2000.
"This is part and parcel of a real bear market for a new generation of investors," said Tim Morris, chief investment officer at New York money-management group Bessemer Trust. "Many people are finding out that their time frames and risk tolerances aren't as great as they thought they were."
Many traders said they thought that the heavy selling was once again motivated more by fear and scandal than by any specific corporate news. Some traders said they are starting to see signs that some individual investors who use margin accounts -- in which some of the money used to buy stocks is borrowed from the brokerage firm -- are getting "margin calls," in which they are forced by the declining value of their portfolios to sell stock to cover their loans.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/39881 7970/1383F622CDD39C905A7/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017 Dow Falls 2.93% In Whipsaw Day As Fear Remains --- Braced for a Big Plunge, Investors Get Seesaw Effect; Optimists Battle Pessimists - ProQuest
"The constant selling, with the retail margin selling, is really putting pressure on people's positions," said David Memmott, head of block trading at New York brokerage firm Morgan Stanley. He said signs of improvement in corporate earnings are being ignored, a classic sign that a stock-market recovery is still elusive. Still, he added, traders aren't yet seeing the significant selloff that some analysts have been calling -- even hoping -- for. Such a broad and deep selloff, called a "capitulation," in which the last holdouts dump their losing positions, could signal an end to the declines. Perversely, to some analysts a merely sizable drop such as yesterday's seemed less helpful than one at least twice the size.
"There was definitely no panic. Mild despair and hopelessness, yes. But capitulation and panic, not yet," said Mr. Memmott.
He said investors may have to deal with a more gradual end to the bear market, rather than such a definitive move. Other traders suggested the relentless declines may produce some kind of short-term rebound, even if it proves to be transient. "Call it a bear market rally or whatever you like," Mr. Leone said. In addition to the pressure of mutual-fund redemptions, some fund managers said they are holding money out of stocks because of worries about a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that requires chief executives of large companies personally to certify the accuracy of their financial reports by Aug. 14. Some fear that, in a last-minute effort to avoid any appearance of impropriety, some chief executives could release negative information in the interim that could further damage stocks.
Contributing to the decline yesterday were The Wall Street Journal reports that the National Association of Securities Dealers is preparing to take regulatory action against star Salomon Smith Barney telecommunications analyst Jack Grubman, and that Citigroup arranged an unusual financing technique that helped Enron Corp. disguise some debts as trades. Stock in Citigroup, the brokerage firm's parent and a component of the Dow industrials, fell 11%.
According to estimates from Bianco Research, an independent research firm in Chicago, mutual-fund investors on average are getting close to the break-even point on money they have put into mutual funds since 1990. That means that the average amount they spent on their mutual funds is getting close to the funds' current face value.
"Should the market sink low enough to cross below their average purchase price, we believe the public will rethink their investments in domestic equity mutual funds since they will begin to lose their original investment," the Bianco report warned. "Current levels are now getting dangerously close to this level. Should the market stay at this level or move lower, we believe we are now at the point where mutual funds will see consistent outflows."
Mr. Morris of Bessemer Trust says he is getting barraged with phone calls from worried investors: "Everybody wants to know where the bottom is."
Word count: 1132
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Jul 23, 2002
More like this
Search ProQuest...				;
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Stock prices
U NASDAQ trading
U Dow Jones averages
U Securities markets
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/39881 7970/1383F622CDD39C905A7/3?accountid=14026
2/2