5/26/2017 Blue Chips Reverse Slide, Surge 488.95 Points --- Surge Renews Speculation, Hope That Market Has Hit Bottom; Investment Pros Search for Signs - Pr...
More like this + Blue Chips Reverse Slide, Surge 488.95 Points --- Surge Renews Speculation, Hope That Market Has Hit Bottom; Investment Pros Search for Signs By Ken Brown. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 July 2002: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Nevertheless, Mr. [Tobias Levkovich], who lowered his year-end price target for the Dow industrials yesterday to 9650, from his earlier prediction of 11200, has his own method for picking the bottom. Mr. Levkovich looks at the dividend yield on the S&P 500 and compares it to interest rate on the three-month Treasury bill. In early stages of bear markets, three-month Treasury yields exceed dividend yields, because higher stock prices mean lower yields. But as stock prices fall, the dividend yield increases. When the dividend yield exceeds Treasurys, money often starts flowing back into stocks. "It suggests you're getting enough income from owning stocks to offset the risk of owning stocks," he explains.
Full Text Translate
EARLIER THIS WEEK, International Strategy & Investment put out a list entitled "Signs of a Possible Bear Market Bottom." The note was typical of dozens published recently that purport to pinpoint the bottom in the stock market.
The eighth and last item on the list: "Strategists stop making lists of 'signs of a possible bear market bottom"’
Jason Trennert, an analyst at ISI and the list's author adds: "Not only is it funny, it's probably accurate."
The powerful 488.95 point rally in the Dow Jones Industrial Average yesterday renewed speculation that maybe -- finally -- the market may be near the bottom. And, then, maybe not.
"I'm going to be honest with you, I kind of do think we may have hit a short-term bottom," says Mr. Trennert. But then he quickly qualifies that, saying, "Whether it's the bottom is a question mark."
Not long after the market bubble burst in March 2000, Wall Street began looking for signs that the market had bottomed. The market's latest swoon has intensified the search, with strategists, analysts and money managers grasping at increasing obscure numbers or trends to give investors comfort that the pain would soon end.
While some investors think yesterday's gains mean that market has bottomed, others are sensing another head fake, pointing out that the Dow rose 3.6% on July 5, only to fall more than 1,000 points during the next two weeks. Indeed, seven of the top eight one-day point gains in the Dow have occurred since the market bubble popped.
Still, the failure of most market prognosticators to get it right so far hasn't discouraged them from trying again. "Everyone wants to be a hero picking the bottom," explains John Kosar, a senior research analyst at Bianco Research.
Mr. Trennert, whose missives are widely read by money managers, says that six of the eight conditions necessary for a bottom have been met, including big mutual-fund redemptions, rising corporate share buyback announcements and panic in the media. The only ones missing are a huge bond-market rally that would drive interest rates even lower than they are now and an end to lists of bear market bottoms.
Like Mr. Trennert, Mr. Kosar also looks for telltale signs -- while doubting the wisdom of trying to pick the absolute bottom. "You're kind of looking for a ghost and you've never seen it before," he says. "You don't know what it looks like until it's come and gone."
Among the statistics he watches is the open interest on 30-year Treasury bond futures, which indicates how willing investors are to hold bonds overnight. "It shows, for lack of a better word, trust," Mr. Kosar notes. Lately that figure is down, meaning investors who have rushed into the bond market during the day as stocks have swooned are afraid to hold bonds overnight for fear that stocks might rally, sending bonds down. That, to Mr. Kosar, is a bullish indicator meaning the bottom is near.
Even as Wall Streeters tout their predictions, some wonder whether anyone is listening. "I'm pretty confident the world doesn't trust me," says Tobias Levkovich, Salomon Smith Barney's U.S. institutional equity strategist.
Nevertheless, Mr. Levkovich, who lowered his year-end price target for the Dow industrials yesterday to 9650, from his earlier prediction of 11200, has his own method for picking the bottom. Mr. Levkovich looks at the dividend yield on the S&P 500 and compares it to interest rate on the three-month Treasury bill. In early stages of bear markets, three-month Treasury yields exceed dividend yields, because higher stock prices mean lower yields. But as stock prices fall, the dividend yield increases. When the dividend yield exceeds Treasurys, money often starts flowing back into stocks. "It suggests you're getting enough income from owning stocks to offset the risk of owning stocks," he explains.
This crossing of the two yields finally occurred as a result of the stock market's recent plunge, which moved the dividend yield on the S&P 500 up to 2%, versus the three-month t-bill yield of 1.665%.
Mr. Levkovich says that when the two cross, as they did in 1974 and two other times during the past 32 years before this month, the market has risen an average of 8.9% during the next six months. "We can almost pinpoint the periods when the equity markets began to recover in the past," he wrote in a recent report.
Ultimately what all of these soothsayers are trying to spot is the moment when greed once again replaces fear as the main force in the market. "There's a point in time where greed comes back," Mr. Levkovich says.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398987840/1383F6C999F3EF5D13F/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017 Blue Chips Reverse Slide, Surge 488.95 Points --- Surge Renews Speculation, Hope That Market Has Hit Bottom; Investment Pros Search for Signs - Pr...
Ed Keon, the chief quantitative equity strategist at Prudential Securities, tries to figure out what the market believes and then decides if it makes sense. While the consensus estimate for earnings for the companies in the S&P 500 is $57 a share during the next 12 months, the market at its current level is priced as if that number is $35 a share, which he believes is too low. That is a sign of the bottom, he says.
Still, he concedes, "I don't believe there's a single person you can talk to who can time the market bottoms with any precision. There's got to be somebody who makes that reputation because there's so many of us who are making these predictions. I think the way to think about it is are you getting value for your money."
Perhaps the most remarkable element of the race to pick the bottom is how many Wall Street analysts, who spent the past decade as cheerleaders for the bull market, are now hoping for a knock-down, drag out capitulation -- or huge selloff by investors -- when the market plunges, and the indexes hit levels even the biggest bears can't imagine. Others say that has happened already. "Everyone wants capitulation to be a one-day event," Mr. Levkovich says. "We've had capitulation over the last three weeks, consistently and unrelentingly."
Peter Hill, chief investment officer at Bailard, Biehl & Kaiser Inc., a San Mateo, Calif., money manager, says sentiment among some of his clients has gone to an extreme, ultimately a good sign. Mr. Hill, whose firm emphasizes diversification, says he believes the market is at or near a bottom in part because clients who had pressured him to up their technology investments in 2000 are looking for safety.
"Now it's gone right around with those same extreme people saying, 'Don't you realize the world's coming to an end," Mr. Hill notes. "Funnily enough those are often the same people."
(See related article: "Wednesday's Markets: Biggest Percentage Rally Since '87, Of 6.4%, Undoes Declines of 2 Days, But Traders Wonder, Will It Last?" -- WSJ July 25, 2002)
Word count: 1122
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Jul 25, 2002
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Dow Jones averages
LJ Bear markets
LJ Heard on the street (wsj)
LJ Securities markets
Search
Ebook Central e-books
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398987840/1383F6C999F3EF5D13F/3?accountid=14026
2/2