6/10/2017
Investors Ponder: Is It Safer Yet? --- After Two-Day, 564-Point Rally, There Are Several Positive Signs, But Even Bulls Remain Skeptical - ProQuest
1Back to results	More like this +
Investors Ponder: Is It Safer Yet? --- After Two-Day, 564-Point Rally, There Are Several Positive Signs, But Even Bulls Remain Skeptical
By E.S. Browning. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Oct 2002: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate Hide highlighting
The economy does seem to be improving, but not robustly enough to put the skeptics at ease. "We expect the 3% average growth rate to continue for the rest of 2002, avoiding a double-dip back into recession, but providing only half the pace of growth that follows the average recession," writes Jeffrey Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Advisors, the investment-advisory unit of PNC Bank in Pittsburgh, in his latest report to clients.
Mr. Kleintop forecasts a 40% gain for the S&P 500 by the end of next year. John Waterman, chief investment officer at Rittenhouse Financial Services, an arm of financial-services group John Nuveen, also is bullish, saying stocks on average have risen 38% in the year after forming a bear-market bottom.
Few people expect a return to the booming '90s. They have in mind a more-limited bull market , which might show average gains of less than 15% a year and which might not return the indexes to their old highs. Some think stocks could soar as they did in the mid-1970s, a period of sharp up-and-down lurches. During the grueling bear market of 1973 to 1974, the Dow industrials fell 45%. Then, the blue-chip index soared 75%. That was a powerful recovery, even though the Dow didn't get back to its previous high before it ran out of steam in 1976. The question now is whether stocks are at the start of a powerful recovery, or just the beginning of a brief rebound.
Full Text Translate
LAST WEEK'S STOCK surge put an end to six straight weeks of declines -- and left investors with some vexing questions: Have stocks finally hit bottom, or is this just one more false rally, setting investors up for another fall?
"Every day I speak to many of you and the conversation ultimately comes to 'Where is it safe to buy?' " Morgan Stanley technical analyst Rick Bensignor wrote in a report to clients last week. "Sometimes it flips a little into 'When is it safe to buy?' "
On the face of it, there are positive signs.
On Friday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 316.34 points, or 4.2%, to 7850.29 -- meaning it rallied 564 points, or 7.7%, in two days and 4.3% for the week. Other indexes posted similar gains.
Moreover, stocks have fallen to a level where, even if they aren't extremely cheap, many investors think they aren't generally overpriced. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is trading at about 16 times analysts' forecasts for its companies' earnings next year, which is about average for the past few decades.
Last week, the S&P 500 passed an important test. It very briefly fell below July's intraday low of 775.96 -- which had been its lowest level in more than five years. But it immediately rebounded, persuading some analysts that investors are prepared -- for now -- to support the index at that level, making it at least a temporary bottom.
On top of that, the Chicago Board Options Exchange's market-volatility index, which is based on options trading and reflects investor anxiety, surged briefly above 50, a level it last saw at the July low. Many analysts view that as an excessively high level of anxiety, from which stocks should rebound. Sure enough, that is what stocks did last week, just as in July.
All of that is reassuring, but even some bulls have their doubts. After all, the Dow industrials surged 18% from late July to late August, including two 400-point days in July. By late August, they climbed over 9000 -- and gave back all of the gains and more in the following weeks.
"We are in a bottoming process," says Keith Banks, who oversees the money-management business at FleetBoston Financial. But he warns stocks could slump again if the market gets more bad news during the next two weeks -- disappointing earnings releases, for example.
"It will be a choppy market without a noticeable uptrend for a while here," Mr. Banks says, because the economic recovery remains fragile and companies are delaying capital investment until they see what happens in Iraq. Although the current bounce could continue "for a bit, I don't think it is a straight shot up. If we start getting some data in the coming week that starts going the other way, I think the market will react to it and start giving back some of these gains."
Bulls see all this doubt as a good thing. It means plenty of skeptical investors are holding money out of stocks -- money they could move back into the market if the economy continues to improve.
The economy does seem to be improving, but not robustly enough to put the skeptics at ease. "We expect the 3% average growth rate to continue for the rest of 2002, avoiding a double-dip back into recession, but providing only half the pace of growth that follows the average recession," writes Jeffrey Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Advisors, the investment-advisory unit of PNC Bank in Pittsburgh, in his latest report to clients.
Mr. Kleintop forecasts a 40% gain for the S&P 500 by the end of next year. John Waterman, chief investment officer at Rittenhouse Financial Services, an arm of financial-services group John Nuveen, also is bullish, saying stocks on average have risen 38% in the year after forming a bear-market bottom.
Few people expect a return to the booming '90s. They have in mind a more-limited bull market , which might show average gains of less than 15% a year and which might
not return the indexes to their old highs. Some think stocks could soar as they did in the mid-1970s, a period of sharp up-and-down lurches. During the grueling bear
market of 1973 to 1974, the Dow industrials fell 45%. Then, the blue-chip index soared 75%. That was a powerful recovery, even though the Dow didn't get back to its
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398819174/AAF09EA16F5C4C1CPQ/3?accountid=12861
1/2
6/10/2017
Investors Ponder: Is It Safer Yet? --- After Two-Day, 564-Point Rally, There Are Several Positive Signs, But Even Bulls Remain Skeptical - ProQuest
previous high before it ran out of steam in 1976. The question now is whether stocks are at the start of a powerful recovery, or just the beginning of a brief rebound.
Edgar Peters, chief investment strategist at Boston money-management group PanAgora Asset Management, says so much money has flowed into Treasury bonds that, by his models, stocks are 50% undervalued compared with bonds. If the economy avoids deflation, as he thinks it will, "I think we are really close to the bottom" for stocks, Mr. Peters says, although he adds it is impossible to say whether stocks are at the bottom or just near it.
"By historic standards, the market is reasonably, or fairly, valued today," says Frederick Taylor, vice chairman of New York money-management firm U.S. Trust. "But bear markets can go to excesses. There is nothing that says we can't go to unfair, or unusually low, valuations."
Mr. Bensignor of Morgan Stanley, who told clients to expect the current jump, warned at the same time that the rally could be brief. He said it could prove weaker than the summer run-up, and he forecast more ups and downs before stocks put in a lasting base.
Part of the problem is investors are wary of stocks, hungering not so much for the big stock gains of the 1990s as for safety, making them reluctant to pump too much into the stock market.
"The focus today is on preservation of principal in a severe environment of uncertainty," says Dennis Ferro, chief investment officer at Evergreen Investments, Wachovia's mutual-fund unit. "To buy stocks today you need to look over the current river of troubles and see on the other side that corporate America is strong, is competitive and will
return to the level of reporting integrity that would complement a high level of profit performance."
Technical analyst Paul Desmond at Lowry's Reports, an independent research firm in North Palm Beach, Fla., has studied past market bottoms and says, although the market may be near one now, it isn't there yet.
"You can see the psychology shifting. It could come any day now, but it just isn't there yet," Mr. Desmond says. The problem is that too many investors are holding stocks they no longer like, and which they plan to sell, Mr. Desmond says. Until they give up and sell their stocks, it is hard for the market to turn up for the long term.
The normal sign this has happened, he says, comes when the market endures several rounds of heavy selling, with 90% of stock volume, measured in shares and in dollars, driven by sellers. The market had one such day about a month ago, but it needs a few more before the worst of the selling is over and stocks can begin a lasting rise, he says.
Friday's Market Activity
Fueling Friday's rise was an on-target earnings report from General Electric, which has suffered recently as analysts cut their growth targets for the conglomerate. But GE said it expects to deliver "solid growth" for 2003. Its shares rose $1.61, or 7.1%, to $24.21.
International Business Machines rose 6.34, or 11%, to 63.92 after being upgraded by Lehman Brothers.
-- Shaheen Pasha
Word count: 1270
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Oct 14, 2002
More like this
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Stock prices
LJ Abreast of the market (wsj)
LJ Dow Jones averages
Search
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398819174/AAF09EA16F5C4C1CPQ/3?accountid=12861
2/2