5/26/2017
Managing the Pain: Is It Time to Bail Yet? --- Most People Hang On Despite Wild Ride; Assessing the Risks - ProQuest
More like this + Managing the Pain: Is It Time to Bail Yet? --- Most People Hang On Despite Wild Ride; Assessing the Risks
By Jeff D. Opdyke and Ruth Simon. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Sep 2002: D.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Whether that turns out to be a wise decision will depend less on the daily stream of corporate trials and tribulations than on a few macro issues. Among them: whether the U.S. economy is in a prolonged slump, whether companies can rebuild confidence in their accounting and how close the stock market is to a bottom.
Some worry that the U.S. may be headed for the kind of trouble Japan has seen. But while there are similarities with Japan, there are also big differences. Real-estate prices have so far continued to rise in the U.S., while in Japan they fell sharply. The U.S. government has also been quicker to respond with interest-rate cuts, tax cuts and fixes to structural problems.
It has played out in many different ways on Wall Street in the past century. In December 1941, as the U.S. entered World War II, stocks dived. But within months they rallied, and largely continued doing so through the end of the war and beyond. Vietnam was different. The war dragged on for a decade and stocks bounced around throughout the stretch, ultimately ending basically where they began. Korea saw what was essentially a bull market from start to finish, though there were dips along the way.
Full Text Translate
IN LITTLE MORE than two years, the stock market has gone from irrational exuberance to irrational despair.
The onslaught of bad news that began two years ago has gained velocity in recent weeks. The Dow Jones Industrial Average this week hit its lowest level in four years, and the Nasdaq reached a six-year low. War in the Middle East seems increasingly likely. And the number of stocks taking big hits has spread far beyond dot-coms and telecom companies to onetime stalwarts, the latest this week being Electronic Data Systems.
While the Dow bounced back 159 points yesterday, gyrations like that have only left many investors more confused. And despite the steady exodus of naysayers from the market, most individual investors are standing pat and watching their portfolios drop. Many continue to steadily put money into stocks through retirement plans.
Indeed, while $58.65 billion flowed out of equity mutual funds from June 1 through Sept. 18, that represents just 2.6% of the $2.3 trillion still remaining in these funds, according to AMG, a data-collection service.
Whether that turns out to be a wise decision will depend less on the daily stream of corporate trials and tribulations than on a few macro issues. Among them: whether the U.S. economy is in a prolonged slump, whether companies can rebuild confidence in their accounting and how close the stock market is to a bottom.
All this uncertainty means that many Americans who should be taking a long-term view are bailing out of stocks. Cigna, for example, found in a recent study that 20% of people now 18 to 25 years old believe a checking account is the best place to put their money. "I couldn't be convinced right now to get into the market," says Becky Hall, a 24-year-old in Highland Park, N.J. She plans to skip enrolling in her company's retirement plan, which she's eligible to do next year.
In times like this, it's tough to remember that in mid-August 1982, overshadowed by back-to-back bear markets and recessions, the stock market began an 18-year bull run that saw the Dow rise more than 13-fold.
Here's an assessment of some of the issues that will determine whether that pattern repeats itself:
Does the market have a bottom?
The quick answer is yes. Stocks will stop falling. The unknown is where and when.
What's important to remember is that assets have a value. Stocks, despite the 1990s mentality, aren't lottery tickets. They are pieces of paper denoting ownership of an asset. Take Tyco. Despite its battered status, the company's most recent balance sheet shows shareholder equity of more than $27 billion, or a bit shy of $14 a share. That equity was generated off real revenues from real businesses, everything from home security systems to health care to plastics.
Many market analysts and money managers believe we are getting close to a market bottom. The market has already matched the 48% peak-to-trough loss of the 19731974 bear market, notes Jason Trennert, senior managing director at ISI Group in New York. "A lot of the market's overvaluation has been addressed," he says.
Based on other measures, stock prices are moving closer to historical norms. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is trading at roughly 15.5 times next year's estimated earnings. That's down from a peak of 34 times just two years ago.
What if the U.S. economy is mired in lackluster growth for another decade?
The economy isn't as bad as many people believe. ISI Group Chairman Ed Hyman believes that gross domestic product should grow by 3% to 4% in the fourth quarter, thanks in part to the home mortgage refinancing boom and the delayed impact of repeated interest-rate cuts. Even the pessimists say we might only grow at 2% in the fourth quarter, hardly a recession.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398805159/8E0069FDFF6D4C5FPQ/3?accountid=14026
1/4
5/26/2017
Managing the Pain: Is It Time to Bail Yet? --- Most People Hang On Despite Wild Ride; Assessing the Risks - ProQuest
One problem is that profits aren't growing faster despite the current level of economic growth. With everyone watching their pennies, companies are having a tough time pushing through price increases.
Some worry that the U.S. may be headed for the kind of trouble Japan has seen. But while there are similarities with Japan, there are also big differences. Real-estate prices have so far continued to rise in the U.S., while in Japan they fell sharply. The U.S. government has also been quicker to respond with interest-rate cuts, tax cuts and fixes to structural problems.
Even in the Japanese funk, a few companies have prospered. Toyota, Honda and Sony have all posted more than 70% share-price gains since 1990.
Can any company be trusted?
Yes, though that's not easily seen through the fog of Enron, WorldCom, Tyco and others that shocked investors with accounting shenanigans.
"Most companies are not lying," says Charles Pradilla, the chief investment strategist at SG Cowen Securities. Moreover, the sharp response to financial misdeeds has provided top executives with a powerful reminder of the costs of not playing by the rules. "I think we have a change in business culture that will lead to companies" making smarter business decisions, says Richard B. Hoey, chief economist and chief investment strategist at Dreyfus Corp. "Accounting will become more honest."
Ultimately, one of the most important factors to consider is the economic backdrop against which the trust issue is unfolding. Earnings are in a recovery, "though the pace is glacial at the moment," says Chuck Hill, research director at Thomson First Call. Moreover, interest rates are at historic lows, meaning corporate managers have access to cheap capital to grow their businesses.
Will war with Iraq torpedo stocks?
History suggests that war's impact on stocks "is a mixed bag," says Sam Burns, equity research analyst at Ned Davis Research.
It has played out in many different ways on Wall Street in the past century. In December 1941, as the U.S. entered World War II, stocks dived. But within months they rallied, and largely continued doing so through the end of the war and beyond. Vietnam was different. The war dragged on for a decade and stocks bounced around throughout the stretch, ultimately ending basically where they began. Korea saw what was essentially a bull market from start to finish, though there were dips along the way.
The events that precipitated the Gulf War in 1991 initially sent stocks into a tailspin as investors fretted about what Iraq's invasion of Kuwait really meant. But when the bombing began, stocks climbed quickly, ending the year up strongly.
Investors likely will see an even more volatile market if war erupts in Iraq. Yet despite harrowing price drops, "volatility can be your friend," says Elizabeth Bramwell, president of Bramwell Capital Management, in New York. That's because otherwise valuable assets go on sale. Her advice: Add to your favorite stocks at cheaper prices.
One caveat: The obvious war plays -- defense contractors and aerospace companies -- have already seen run-ups.
What, Me Worry?
Knowing what to worry about is key to riding out a tough market.
Not Worth It
-- Market Psychology. Following the herd will usually leave you in
the dust.
-- Short-Term Price Movements. The average investor should plan on
holding stocks for years.
Worth It
-- Corporate fundamentals. Stocks ultimately rise based on corporate
profits.
-- Valuations. Even a great company can be a poor buy if the stock is
too expensive.
Placing Your Bets
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398805159/8E0069FDFF6D4C5FPQ/3?accountid=14026
2/4
5/26/2017
Managing the Pain: Is It Time to Bail Yet? --- Most People Hang On Despite Wild Ride; Assessing the Risks - ProQuest
Below are 10 sectors considered attractive investments and 10 that
aren't. The Leuthold Group rates 140 industry groups based on 33
factors, ranging from earnings growth to insider trading to
macroeconomic factors. Twenty-six sectors get Leuthold's highest attractiveness rating.
Attractive
-- Electrical Components and Equipment
-- Consumer Electronics
-- Photographic Products
-- Railroads
-- Textiles
-- Oil and Gas Drilling
-- Housewares and Specialties
-- Specialty Chemicals
-- Networking Equipment
-- Computer Storage and Peripherals
Unattractive
-- Broadcasting and cable TV
-- Multi-line insurance
-- Insurance brokers
-- Airlines
-- Oil and gas refining, marketing and transportation
-- Construction-farm machinery and heavy trucks
-- Mid-cap growth
-- Data Processing Services
-- Coal
-- Water Utilities
Source: The Leuthold Group
(See related article: "After Selling Losers, Singed Investors Also Face Tax Nightmare" -- WSJ Sept. 26, 2002) Word count: 1353
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Sep 26, 2002
More like this
Search ProQuest...				;
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398805159/8E0069FDFF6D4C5FPQ/3?accountid=14026
3/4
5/26/2017
Managing the Pain: Is It Time to Bail Yet? --- Most People Hang On Despite Wild Ride; Assessing the Risks - ProQuest
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Investment
U Personal finance
U Securities markets
U Portfolio management
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits
Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398805159/8E0069FDFF6D4C5FPQ/3?accountid=14026
4/4