5/26/2017 Dow Industrials Rocket 247.68 In Turnaround --- As Short Covering Plays a Role, Sustainability Is Questioned; Technical Indicators Flash 'Buy' - ProQuest
More like this + Dow Industrials Rocket 247.68 In Turnaround --- As Short Covering Plays a Role, Sustainability Is Questioned; Technical Indicators Flash 'Buy'
By E.S. Browning. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Oct 2002: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The early strength led to a technical phenomenon known as "short covering," which can create large, brief rallies. The phenomenon involves short sellers, investors who borrow stocks and sell them in a bet they will decline. In order to take profits, short sellers ultimately must buy back the borrowed stocks at lower prices and return them to the brokerage firms from which they were borrowed. That buying, which often follows market declines such as just occurred, can create big one-day rallies. The question is whether this rally will prove more enduring and broadbased.
Technology and bank stocks led the gains. The Nasdaq Composite Index, dominated by big technology stocks, advanced 4.42%, or 49.26 points, to 1163.37. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rallied 3.5%, or 27.16 points, to 803.92. Still, the Nasdaq is down 40% on the year and the S&P 500 is off 30%.
Chief technical analyst Rick Bensignor of Morgan Stanley put out a report telling clients at least a short-term recovery could be at hand. "We believe that we are shortly to get one of the best buying opportunities of the year," he wrote. "It may not exceed the 25% rally that stemmed from the July lows to the August highs, but it should be worthy enough of a 'glad I didn't miss that move' feeling." But Mr. Bensignor and others warned the longer-term outlook remains far from rosy.
Full Text Translate
STOCKS FINALLY ENJOYED the resounding rebound investors have been waiting for, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average surging almost 250 points, wiping out Wednesday's slide.
But investors have seen so many one-day wonders -- occurring most recently on the first day of this month, when the Dow rose almost 350 points and then gave it all back later -- that a debate broke out on Wall Street about whether the gains can continue.
"We have had a couple of days like this in the recent past, but the market hasn't been able to sustain it," said Bob Basel, senior listed trader at Salomon Smith Barney. "So the big question is, 'can we do it again' " today?
Traders said yesterday's action stemmed less from any specific news than from a sense stocks were overdue to bounce after major indexes fell Wednesday to five-year lows.
Yesterday began on another gloomy note, as stocks fell in the wake of soft September chain-store sales. But then buyers stepped in, spurred in part by unexpectedly strong earnings announced late Wednesday by Internet company Yahoo and in part by a rebound among beaten-down bank stocks that had begun during European trading.
U.S. employment numbers for the previous week also were a bit better than expected.
The early strength led to a technical phenomenon known as "short covering," which can create large, brief rallies. The phenomenon involves short sellers, investors who borrow stocks and sell them in a bet they will decline. In order to take profits, short sellers ultimately must buy back the borrowed stocks at lower prices and return them to the brokerage firms from which they were borrowed. That buying, which often follows market declines such as just occurred, can create big one-day rallies. The question is whether this rally will prove more enduring and broadbased.
"It felt real. It felt as if there was substance to the move up," said Keith Gertsen, head of Nasdaq trading at brokerage firm Deutsche Bank Securities. Although the morning rally was mainly short-covering, he said, he saw longer-term institutional investors buying stocks during the afternoon. "I don't know if this is necessarily the bottom, but it is a definitive move on decent volume and it gives some relief to the downward pressure," he said.
In one of the heaviest trading days of the year on the New York Stock Exchange, the Dow industrials surged 3.4%, or 247.68 points, to 7533.95. That is still down 25% for the year, but it is a lot better than the level of 7286 at which the blue chips finished the day before. It was the industrial average's fifth-strongest percentage gain of the year.
Beaten-down stocks such as General Motors and Citigroup gained more than 6% each, while Walt Disney was up more than 7%. Yahoo, which isn't a component of the Dow, rose almost 23%. Computer-chip stocks jumped 6%.
Technology and bank stocks led the gains. The Nasdaq Composite Index, dominated by big technology stocks, advanced 4.42%, or 49.26 points, to 1163.37. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rallied 3.5%, or 27.16 points, to 803.92. Still, the Nasdaq is down 40% on the year and the S&P 500 is off 30%.
U.S. Treasury securities, trading at highs not seen for 44 years as investors treated them as a refuge, fell sharply as money flowed back toward stocks.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 24/32, or $7.50 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, rose to 3.656%. The 30-year bond was down 30/32 to yield 4.715%.
Investors said the market turned in part due to technical indicators that began flashing buy signals shortly after regular trading began. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange's volatility index, a measure of investor anxiety based on options trading, briefly pushed above the 50 level. That is an unusually high reading reflecting an
exaggerated level of investor worry, from which stocks often have rebounded, at least temporarily.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398871987/1383F84D2D375EF0639/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017 Dow Industrials Rocket 247.68 In Turnaround --- As Short Covering Plays a Role, Sustainability Is Questioned; Technical Indicators Flash 'Buy' - ProQuest
In addition, investors have been watching the level of 775 on the S&P 500, which was the intraday low from which stocks bounced during the summer. The S&P 500 has remained above that level since and avoided closing below it Wednesday. Yesterday, although the index briefly broke through 775 and got as low as 768.63 during the morning, it quickly recovered. That fueled hope investors would treat stocks as cheap and step in to buy whenever the index fell that low, making that at least a temporary floor for the market.
"Larger institutional investors came into the market for fear of missing the move up," Mr. Gertsen said. "There was a lot of chatter among my customers that this is starting to feel like a real move."
That is the view of Edgar Peters, chief investment strategist at Boston money-management group PanAgora Asset Management. Mr. Peters said he pulled back from stocks earlier this year, amid weak earnings reports. But as stocks sagged heavily during the summer and early autumn, he steadily boosted his stockholdings in anticipation of a recovery.
"Where the bottom happens is unclear," he says. "But long-term indicators suggest that stocks are extremely undervalued."
Chief technical analyst Rick Bensignor of Morgan Stanley put out a report telling clients at least a short-term recovery could be at hand. "We believe that we are shortly to get one of the best buying opportunities of the year," he wrote. "It may not exceed the 25% rally that stemmed from the July lows to the August highs, but it should be worthy enough of a 'glad I didn't miss that move' feeling." But Mr. Bensignor and others warned the longer-term outlook remains far from rosy.
Soft September chain-store sales, for example, with even discounters such as Kohl's and Target announcing sales declines, stoked worries consumer spending, the main pillar of the economy, could be wobbling.
Word count: 969
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Oct 11, 2002
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Dow Jones averages
LJ Stock prices
LJ Daily markets (wsj)
Search
Ebook Central e-books
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398871987/1383F84D2D375EF0639/3?accountid=14026
2/2