5/26/2017
Stocks Fall, Corporate Bonds Wobble --- Dow Industrials' Drop of 215.22 Sparks a Rally in Treasurys; Investors Fret About Debt Loads - ProQuest
More like this + Stocks Fall, Corporate Bonds Wobble --- Dow Industrials' Drop of 215.22 Sparks a Rally in Treasurys; Investors Fret About Debt Loads By Gregory Zuckerman. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Oct 2002: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Investors shifted money into safe U.S. Treasurys, as they have for much of the stock swoon, sending the benchmark 10-year Treasury note up 16/32 to 106 20/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, dropped to 3.571%, its lowest level in 44 years. The dollar fell to 99.01 euros from 99.12 euros Tuesday.
While money continued to flow into Treasurys, all kinds of corporate bonds, including both those rated investment grade and lower-rated junk bonds, are sinking. Junk bonds have an average yield of about 14% -- with bonds of some troubled telecom companies offering yields of 20% or more -- putting the average yield more than 10 percentage points higher than comparable 10-year Treasurys. That is the widest difference on record and a sign investors are nervous about the prospects of the most troubled companies possibly defaulting on their debt and thus are demanding a higher yield to offset the risk.
even investment-grade bonds are under pressure, with spreads continuing to widen compared with Treasurys. Top-rated corporate bonds yield around 5.25%, or 1.75 percentage points more than 10-year Treasurys. The difference in yields was just 1.55 points as recently as in June.
Full Text Translate
IN A SIGN OF INVESTORS' nervousness, stocks tumbled once again and the selloff spread to corporate bonds, as investors fret that debt owed by some U.S. companies could cause problems if the economy doesn't turn around.
Stocks fell across the board amid expectations that earnings won't be picking up soon, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average declining 215.22 points, or 2.87%, to 7286.27, while the Nasdaq Composite Index lost 1.34% to 1114.11 and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.73% to 776.76.
While some analysts and investors are hoping the selling has hit its worst, there is no assurance of that. The Dow industrials and the S&P 500 are at their lowest levels since 1997, and the Nasdaq has fallen back to where it was during August 1996.
Almost six stocks fell for every one that rose on the NYSE, the worst ratio since April 2000, and other measures of the market underscored the widespread weakness. The Dow Jones Transportation Average, long seen as a good barometer of future economic activity, fell to its lowest level since 1996, while the Dow Jones Utility Average had its fifth-worst day, and slumped to its lowest level since 1988.
Investors shifted money into safe U.S. Treasurys, as they have for much of the stock swoon, sending the benchmark 10-year Treasury note up 16/32 to 106 20/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, dropped to 3.571%, its lowest level in 44 years. The dollar fell to 99.01 euros from 99.12 euros Tuesday.
But while money continued to flow into Treasurys, all kinds of corporate bonds, including both those rated investment grade and lower-rated junk bonds, are sinking. Junk bonds have an average yield of about 14% -- with bonds of some troubled telecom companies offering yields of 20% or more -- putting the average yield more than 10 percentage points higher than comparable 10-year Treasurys. That is the widest difference on record and a sign investors are nervous about the prospects of the most troubled companies possibly defaulting on their debt and thus are demanding a higher yield to offset the risk.
Yesterday, junk bond prices fell across the board about 3%, said CIBC World Markets.
But even investment-grade bonds are under pressure, with spreads continuing to widen compared with Treasurys. Top-rated corporate bonds yield around 5.25%, or 1.75 percentage points more than 10-year Treasurys. The difference in yields was just 1.55 points as recently as in June.
And the spreads of companies in the lower tier of investment-grade bonds are widening even more. AOL Time Warner has seen the yields on its five-year bonds widen to 6.25 percentage points more than Treasurys, up from just 2.5 in June.
Some investors think the selling may be overdone. "It may be we're finally having a capitulation; it's not fundamentals" that are causing the selling, says Joseph Balestrino, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors Inc.
While top-notch companies have been able to take advantage of falling interest rates by issuing bonds, most others are being discouraged by their banking advisers from even trying to entice investors with issues in this difficult market.
One positive sign is, unlike during 1998 and some periods earlier this year, the volume of trading has held up, indicating markets are operating smoothly albeit nervously. But there is growing concern many companies are facing ravaged balanced sheets and a downbeat earnings outlook, and may face difficulties paying their debts.
Traders say the selling is picking up its pace, as investors pare back holdings of almost any company with sizable debts and a doubtful outlook.
"Everyone knows who the companies with heavy debt are and people are paring down their risk parameters across their entire portfolio, from equities to debt," said Eric Felder, a senior trader at Lehman Brothers. "It feels like a general risk reduction."
The biggest concerns are centered in those companies that will need to go to borrow more money to come up with cash to keep their businesses going. "People are more
cautious about companies with considerable capital-markets needs, and debt maturing over next two to three years," Mr. Felder said.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398917440/1383F83558D35969402/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017
Stocks Fall, Corporate Bonds Wobble --- Dow Industrials' Drop of 215.22 Sparks a Rally in Treasurys; Investors Fret About Debt Loads - ProQuest
While all corporate bonds are falling of late, investment-rated bonds have held up better than junk bonds overall this year, and have gained about 5%, compared with losses of about 8% for junk bonds. But recently these high-rated bonds have been under pressure amid fears more companies will see their credit ratings downgraded to junk. So far this year, a whopping 81% of ratings actions by Moody's Investors Service have been downgrades, on pace for a record. That suggests balance sheets are getting worse, not better, as the economy slows.
Indeed, companies have poured on debt during recent years and are doing little to trim it. U.S. nonfinancial companies have a record $4.89 trillion in debt. That is up just 2.6% during the past year, the lowest pace of growth for nine years, a sign corporations recognize they need to improve the health of their balance sheets.
The superlow interest rates make the high debt level somewhat less of a problem for companies -- just as low mortgage rates make it easier for homeowners to borrow more. But the fact the debt is still growing, and not yet shrinking, worries many investors. That is because if deflation actually emerges, and companies face resistance to price increases for their goods and services, they could have a harder time generating the cash to pay off their debt. "The deleveraging just hasn't proceeded far enough," says John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's.
For months, upbeat Wall Street analysts predicted consumers would continue to keep the economy afloat just long enough for corporate spending to pick up, keeping the U.S. out of a recession.
Now, some doubts are emerging, says Amy Falls, a senior strategist at Morgan Stanley, on the heels of discouraging news from big retailer Sears, Roebuck & Co., downbeat figures about consumer confidence and growing mortgage delinquencies. Just as the stock-market boom created a wealth effect during the late 1990s, the plunge could contribute to consumers pulling back.
"I'm increasingly convinced of the double-dip scenario" whereby the economy would again slip into a recession, Ms. Falls says. "The consumer was the bulwark of the economy, but we're seeing some cracks in that sector."
Word count: 1051
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Oct 10, 2002
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Dow Jones averages
U Stock prices
U Daily markets (wsj)
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits
Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398917440/1383F83558D35969402/3?accountid=14026
2/2