6/10/2017
Prospect of War Weighs on Stocks; Even Quick Victory May Not Help - ProQuest
1Back to results	More like this +
Prospect of War Weighs on Stocks; Even Quick Victory May Not Help
By E.S. Browning. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 Jan 2003: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate Hide highlighting
The worry is that even if the U.S. defeats Iraq quickly, or somehow prevails without war, U.S. investors will continue to face a host of world problems that could weigh on stocks for some time to come. In addition to continuing economic and corporate troubles here in the U.S., investors worry about North Korea's nuclear threat, which some consider an even bigger problem than Iraq. Others think that continuing instability in the Middle East could keep oil prices high. And rising tensions with Europe have raised fears that the U.S. may be going out on a limb, isolating itself from allies, which could produce bigger problems later.
"This whole Iraq situation has soured the world's perception of the U.S.," Mr. [David Briggs] says. "At first they weren't purchasing U.S. assets, and now they are dumping U.S. assets."
Mr. Briggs and other experienced investors believe that stocks initially will surge if the U.S. successfully invades Iraq or if Saddam Hussein folds and goes into exile. Some think that an end to the Iraq uncertainty could be all stocks need to create a powerful bull market that could last months, perhaps years. The U.S. economy, after all, is slowly recovering, and stocks should respond if the Iraq uncertainty is lifted.
Full Text Translate
The prospect of war with Iraq is smothering the stock market, and investors increasingly fear that even a quick end to the Iraq crisis won't put the market 's broader worries to rest.
As tensions worsened last week between the U.S. and its European allies about how to deal with Iraq, the Dow Jones Industrial Average finished the week at a three-month low. Concerns are building among investors that history's normal pattern -- in which war typically is good for stocks -- might not apply this time.
The worry is that even if the U.S. defeats Iraq quickly, or somehow prevails without war, U.S. investors will continue to face a host of world problems that could weigh on stocks for some time to come. In addition to continuing economic and corporate troubles here in the U.S., investors worry about North Korea's nuclear threat, which some consider an even bigger problem than Iraq. Others think that continuing instability in the Middle East could keep oil prices high. And rising tensions with Europe have raised fears that the U.S. may be going out on a limb, isolating itself from allies, which could produce bigger problems later.
Also, America's war against terrorism won't be over after an Iraq war, meaning that the risk of further attacks will continue to hang over the stock market . "Even if you beat Saddam, do you beat terrorism?" asks Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer at mutual-fund group Waddell & Reed in Overland Park, Kan. "Terrorism is a weight on the market."
After soaring more than 6% in the first two weeks of the new year, the Dow industrials plunged 5.3% last week alone. On Friday, the average was down 238.46 points, or 2.85%, at 8131.01, having given back all of the new year's gains.
The immediate problem was the diplomatic flareup as longtime allies France and Germany criticized the U.S. for moving too rapidly toward war. Tempers cooled somewhat after the U.S. suggested it could agree to give United Nations inspectors a little more time to do their work. If the immediate Iraq crisis were to fade, investors could seize upon the respite as a reason to buy beaten-down stocks, sending indexes back up.
Plenty of investors still are hoping to see stocks return to the historical pattern, in which they weaken just before a war, but then rebound strongly soon after the gunfire begins. That is what happened during World War II, the Korean War and the Gulf War, when conflict built patriotism and stimulated the economy.
It seemed to be happening in the fall of 2001, when stocks fell after the Sept. 11 attacks, but then rose strongly once the U.S. began its war on Afghanistan's Taliban and al Qaeda.
But the war in Afghanistan didn't produce the same result. Instead of sparking a continuing bull market, that fighting led to more investor disappointment. All the stock gains from that war now have unraveled, not just because of Iraq, but also because of Enron Corp.'s meltdown, anemic corporate earnings and Wall Street scandals. The Dow industrials now have fallen back below their level before the Afghanistan war. In fact, blue chips are back below the low of 8235.81 hit on Sept. 21, 2001, following the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. However, the average is still well above the low it hit last October.
Contributing to the declines, and to the reluctance of big companies to step in and invest in the future, is a worry that victory in Afghanistan and a potential victory in Iraq don't represent an end to the conflict. Terrorism not only remains a concern but could grow as a result of the fallout from any U.S. move against Iraq.
Partly because of the lingering uncertainty, Mr. Herrmann says, his fund group is keeping about 10% of its assets in cash -- more than double the normal level. He also has put more than usual in bonds and in gold.
Many smaller investors also are pulling back from stocks, withdrawing hundreds of millions of dollars from stock mutual funds in the third week of January.
David Briggs, head of stock trading at Pittsburgh mutual-fund group Federated Investors, says that money managers of stock funds at his firm are required to invest fully
in stocks. But even with those constraints, they are finding ways to drag their feet about putting new money to work, and Mr. Briggs figures that they are holding about 6%
of their assets in cash, roughly double their normal level.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398935312/E59226FCA41A4E94PQ/4?accountid=12861
1/2
6/10/2017
Prospect of War Weighs on Stocks; Even Quick Victory May Not Help - ProQuest
The diplomatic standoff between the U.S. and its allies has started to weigh down the market. Mr. Briggs says he is seeing signs that European investors are dumping U.S.
stocks. Not only are they worried about an impending war, he says, they also are suffering from the dollar's recent decline against the euro, which reduces the value of
investments in U.S. securities.
"This whole Iraq situation has soured the world's perception of the U.S.," Mr. Briggs says. "At first they weren't purchasing U.S. assets, and now they are dumping U.S. assets."
Mr. Briggs and other experienced investors believe that stocks initially will surge if the U.S. successfully invades Iraq or if Saddam Hussein folds and goes into exile. Some think that an end to the Iraq uncertainty could be all stocks need to create a powerful bull market that could last months, perhaps years. The U.S. economy, after all, is slowly recovering, and stocks should respond if the Iraq uncertainty is lifted.
But that is where the doubts come in. Consider the World War II attack on Pearl Harbor, which has at times been compared with Sept. 11. Stocks went down at the start of World War II, just as they did before the Afghan attack and just as they have now. But stocks turned up shortly before the Battle of Midway in June 1942. After the Midway victory, fears of invasion and defeat began to be replaced by the expectation of victory. The Dow industrials doubled from the Battle of Midway through the end of 1945.
Could victory over Iraq be viewed as another Midway? Many analysts are dubious.
Primarily, that's because even the end of the Hussein regime doesn't mean terrorism will go away, or that international enmity against the U.S. will ease. Even the capture of Osama bin Laden wouldn't be seen as ending the terrorist threat.
"This isn't just Iraq, it is much more," says market strategist Alan Ackerman of New York brokerage firm Fahnstock & Co. "Our way of life and the growth in our economy are affected by concern about attack from within or an external attack." Business leaders "don't want to put money to work in their businesses until they have some clarity on what lies ahead," he says.
Some investors fear that, even if the war were brief, Iraq would damage its oil wells and prevent the U.S. from using them. That could send oil prices up even further, jolting an already fragile U.S. economy. Others worry about a loss of stability at friendly Arab kingdoms, whose legitimacy could come into question.
"I don't have any doubt that if we have a quick, punch-in-the-mouth war against Saddam, the stock market [initially] will benefit," says Mr. Herrmann of Waddell. "But I have a question about whether it will provide a lasting solution to the problem at hand."
Not all wars are good for stocks, says Tim Hayes, global stock strategist at market research firm Ned Davis Research in Venice, Fla., who has made a study of past international crises' effects on stock markets. "If [an Iraq invasion] just muddies things up in the Middle East and things look worse, maybe Vietnam is a better comparison" than World War II, he says.
Mr. Hayes figures that the Vietnam War contributed to the end of a long-term bullish period that began in 1942, and which he calculates ended in 1966. Many things contributed to the onset of the long-term bear market that began in the late 1960s and early 1970s, including soaring oil prices and mounting inflation, but it is widely agreed that the bearish period lasted until 1982. "War itself is far less important for stock prices than the influence that war can have on monetary and economic conditions," Mr. Hayes wrote in a recent report.
In past crises, stocks typically have risen more than 13% one year after a surprise attack such as Pearl Harbor or the North Korean invasion of South Korea, says Gibbons Burke of market-research firm MarketHistory.com. Eighteen months after the event, stocks have tended to be up more than 30%, he says. But today, more than a year after Sept. 11, stocks are down.
"History has to be used with caution, prudence and sober judgment," Mr. Burke says.
Word count: 1461
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Jan 27, 2003
More like this
Search ProQuest...			z	;
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U War
U Dow Jones averages
U Securities markets
Location
U United States
LJ US
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398935312/E59226FCA41A4E94PQ/4?accountid=12861
2/2