5/26/2017	Dow Industrials Fall 307.29 Points --- Worst Day in Six Months Follows Weekend of Bad News in War, As Investors Show Fresh Concern - ProQuest
More like this + Dow Industrials Fall 307.29 Points --- Worst Day in Six Months Follows Weekend of Bad News in War, As Investors Show Fresh Concern
By Gregory Zuckerman. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Mar 2003: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The declines yesterday wiped out stocks' gains from Thursday and Friday. Though major indexes all remain sharply higher compared with the levels when war became imminent, the Dow industrials once again moved into negative territory for the year, down 1.5%. The Nasdaq is up 2.6%.
One example: Talk that a bomb in Bahrain caused casualties for the U.S. Navy sent the Dow average down more than 40 points in midafternoon. When it became clear that the explosion was caused by a propane gas tank and caused no injuries, stocks recouped much of those losses.
"Like the military effort, the market is four steps up and two steps back," said David Sowerby, a portfolio manager at Loomis Sayles & Co. in Detroit. Mr. Sowerby yesterday bought shares of Carnival Cruise Lines, hoping the stock -- which tumbled 6.5% -- would rebound when news on the war is brighter and the economy rebounds.
Full Text Translate
STOCKS HAD THEIR worst day in six months following a weekend of downbeat war news. The realization among investors is that the battle in Iraq may be longer and more difficult than anticipated a few days ago.
As stocks soared during the past two weeks, confidence grew that the war could be finished swiftly, much as the first Gulf War was completed in a matter of weeks. But casualties suffered by U.S. troops, and a sense that a difficult battle is ahead for control of Baghdad, sent oil prices higher yesterday, and sparked a rush of stock selling.
"This time, it's not as speedy as people hoped for and investors are starting to realize we're in for a battle," said David Memmott, a senior stock trader at Morgan Stanley.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had risen nearly 1,000 points in the previous eight sessions, fell for the first time in two weeks, tumbling 307.29 points, or 3.61%, to 8214.68 -- its worst percentage drop since Sept. 27.
The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 3.66%, or 52.06, to 1369.78. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.52%, or 31.56 points to 864.23.
On the three-year anniversary of the all-time high for the Wilshire 5000 Index, the index fell 3.3%, meaning that investors lost more than $300 billion in one day.
The declines yesterday wiped out stocks' gains from Thursday and Friday. Though major indexes all remain sharply higher compared with the levels when war became imminent, the Dow industrials once again moved into negative territory for the year, down 1.5%. The Nasdaq is up 2.6%.
Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market was the lightest in two weeks, suggesting that investors weren't heading for the exits en masse. Downturns that come on heavy volume often are considered more likely to continue, rather than those on more limited volume, according to some traders.
Much as they have in the past few weeks when news turned grim, investors shifted back into bonds and gold, seen as safer investments. Treasury prices enjoyed their best gains in four months, sending the yield on the key 10-year note, which falls as prices rise, to below 4% once again. The dollar declined from its recent rally.
The market lost ground from the opening bell, on the heels of losses in European markets, and continued lower throughout the day, finishing very near the day's worst levels. With traders glued to their television sets, an edgy market moved with every piece of news, and even on unconfirmed reports.
One example: Talk that a bomb in Bahrain caused casualties for the U.S. Navy sent the Dow average down more than 40 points in midafternoon. When it became clear that the explosion was caused by a propane gas tank and caused no injuries, stocks recouped much of those losses.
Robert Harrington, a senior stock trader at UBS Warburg, said, "We went from thinking on Friday that we may have got Hussein with our first strike to thinking that he is running the army and worrying about the impact of a longer war."
The concern is that a longer war would crimp consumer and corporate spending, hurting earnings and creating uncertainty for an economy already juggling other issues.
Indeed, hotel, airline and broadcast stocks did the worst yesterday, as investors sold stocks that might suffer if the war is protracted. Technology shares, which helped lead the market in recent weeks, also fell sharply.
Investors have been shifting out of stocks for the past three years, and traders say individual investors, who have only done limited buying in this month's rally, were selling.
"The news flow pushed away potential buyers," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Inc. in Baltimore. "We're seeing very little participation by mutual funds or individuals."
Perhaps most important, oil prices remain well below the levels reached earlier this year, despite yesterday's run-up. Crude oil hit almost $40 a barrel late last month, as
tensions with Iraq grew, before falling below $27 late last week. Yesterday oil prices rose $1.75 to $28.66 a barrel. Oil prices are among the best indicators for how well the
war is going, and what kind of impact it will have on the economy, analysts say.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398890262/1383F8F24925513F02F/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017	Dow Industrials Fall 307.29 Points --- Worst Day in Six Months Follows Weekend of Bad News in War, As Investors Show Fresh Concern - ProQuest
"Like the military effort, the market is four steps up and two steps back," said David Sowerby, a portfolio manager at Loomis Sayles & Co. in Detroit. Mr. Sowerby yesterday
bought shares of Carnival Cruise Lines, hoping the stock -- which tumbled 6.5% -- would rebound when news on the war is brighter and the economy rebounds.
n
Word count: 768
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Mar 25, 2003
More like this
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Dow Jones averages
LJ Stock prices
U Daily markets (wsj)
Search
Ebook Central e-books
The Wiley Finance Ser. : The Handbook of News Analytics in Finance (1)
2.	Annual Register, Volume 232 : World Events In 1990.
3.
New York City Draft Riots : Their Significance for American Society and P...
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398890262/1383F8F24925513F02F/3?accountid=14026
2/2