5/26/2017 Stocks Record Biggest Rally in Five Months --- Industrials Rise 269.68 Points, As Nasdaq Climbs Into the Black; Technology, Insurers Lead Surge - ProQ...
More like this +
Stocks Record Biggest Rally in Five Months --- Industrials Rise 269.68 Points, As Nasdaq Climbs Into the Black; Technology, Insurers Lead Surge
By Gregory Zuckerman. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 Mar 2003: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Some were confounded by the sudden climb. The sharp gains -- and the year's heaviest trading volumes that accompanied them -- came with as much bad news as good. Indeed, the very nature of the abrupt rise suggested to some that the rally might be fleeting, unless there is a resolution on Iraq soon. "There was a move out of bonds and into stocks" fueling the move, said Bob Basel, a senior trader at Salomon Smith Barney. "But I question the sustainability of the rally."
Once stock prices started rallying, many investors elected to "cover" their short positions, or buy back stock that they had borrowed and sold on a bet that prices would fall. Others flocked to stocks that might do best in the event the Iraq crisis passes and the U.S. economy gets a lift. Semiconductor stocks, for example, jumped 8%, amid some talk by analysts that the worst is over for that sector.
Outside the U.S., stocks rose in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 1.65%, or 1.52, to 93.8.
Full Text Translate
THE STOCK MARKET's relentless punishment ended yesterday -- at least for a day.
Stocks soared in their biggest gains in five months amid hopes that a war in Iraq could be delayed, or even avoided. Beaten-down technology and insurance stocks led the surge, which was accompanied by a drop in oil prices and fleeting signs that there might be life coming back to the economy.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 269.68 points, or 3.57%, to 7821.75 -- the biggest rally in point and percentage terms since Oct. 15.
The Nasdaq Composite Index jumped even higher: 4.81%, or 61.53, to 1340.77, to put the battered index back in positive territory for the year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.45%, or 27.71 points, to 831.90.
But some were confounded by the sudden climb. The sharp gains -- and the year's heaviest trading volumes that accompanied them -- came with as much bad news as good. Indeed, the very nature of the abrupt rise suggested to some that the rally might be fleeting, unless there is a resolution on Iraq soon. "There was a move out of bonds and into stocks" fueling the move, said Bob Basel, a senior trader at Salomon Smith Barney. "But I question the sustainability of the rally."
The rally added about $300 billion in market value to the portfolios of beleaguered investors. While many analysts have predicted a stock-market rally once a war in Iraq actually begins, yesterday investors embraced the prospect that the standoff could be averted without military action.
The run-up began with a decline in oil prices and a rally in European stocks on reports that senior Iraqi officers might be in talks to surrender. Though that news never was confirmed, it helped boost the dollar and start Wall Street's day on the upswing.
As investors rushed back into stocks, they fled the investments they had plowed into seeking some measure of safety, sending bonds and gold prices falling. Treasurys had their worst losses in almost two months.
Bonds had been soaring -- pushing down yields, which move opposite to price, to historically low levels and helping to fuel a boom in home-buying and mortgagerefinancing. The 10-year Treasury note yesterday dropped 1 9/32, or $12.81 for each $1,000 invested, to push up the yield to 3.744%.
Once stock prices started rallying, many investors elected to "cover" their short positions, or buy back stock that they had borrowed and sold on a bet that prices would fall. Others flocked to stocks that might do best in the event the Iraq crisis passes and the U.S. economy gets a lift. Semiconductor stocks, for example, jumped 8%, amid some talk by analysts that the worst is over for that sector.
"If there's strength in semiconductors that should move down the food chain to the rest of the manufacturing sectors," said Tim Smalls, senior equity trader at SG Cowen. "I'm cautiously optimistic, as long as we make progress toward a conclusion" of the Iraqi imbroglio.
One encouraging element was that the rally came on heated trading activity, as some large institutions scooped up shares. Spirits rose on the trading floor of Credit Suisse First Boston in Manhattan as the rally took off in the morning and traders rooted the market on. Indeed, investors often see big market moves that are backed by heavy trading as more likely to continue than those based on limited trading.
The biggest percentage gainers in the Dow average were Intel, up 7.1%; Walt Disney, which rose 6.7%; and General Motors, up 6.4%. Merck and Hewlett-Packard were the only industrial-average stocks not to participate in the rally.
Still, there were signs that confusion still reigns in the market. For example, some traders attributed the gains in part to a sense that a war with Iraq will be soon and will be quick; others said they were encouraged any battle might be delayed.
And often explosive gains are the fastest to peter out. Stocks have managed some of their best one-day gains amid the brutal bear market in the past three years, only to
give the gains right back, as gloomy economic news unfolds. Part of the reason is the short-covering, rather than out-and-out buying by bulls, which can help to fuel rallies
like yesterday's.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398925370/1383F8DB2F268099DA2/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017 Stocks Record Biggest Rally in Five Months --- Industrials Rise 269.68 Points, As Nasdaq Climbs Into the Black; Technology, Insurers Lead Surge - ProQ...
"There was a lot of short covering" yesterday, said Mr. Basel of Salomon Smith Barney. "That's not real buying; these investors aren't in it for the long haul."
Just yesterday data was released showing how weak retail sales were in February, with sales falling 1.6%, the worst one-month performance in 15 months. Some said the sales data was so disappointing that it might encourage the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates next week.
At the same time, more weak data on first-time jobless claims underscored how the labor market has turned weaker in just the past month or so, another problem for the market.
Bulls are hanging their hats on the argument that stock prices are so cheap, relative to the skimpy yields on bonds, that stocks are a buy. Edward Keon, quantitative analyst at Prudential Securities, says that even though earnings are still under pressure, and the world is a riskier place than a few years ago, "stocks are just cheaper than bonds."
"There's no guarantee the world will be safer in six months but in the past when stocks were priced as though they were very risky, in time that risk faded and stocks went up," he said.
Helping the stock market's spirits were heady gains in European markets. The FTSE-100 rose more than 6%, its biggest gain since 1987, while the German DAX jumped almost 7%.
Outside the U.S., stocks rose in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding U.S. stocks, rose 1.65%, or 1.52, to 93.8.
In major U.S. market action:
Major stock indexes rose. On the Big Board, where 1.76 billion shares traded, 2,407 stocks rose and 892 declined.
Bonds fell. In addition to the 10-year note's drop, the 30-year bond dropped 2 4/32 to yield 4.741%.
The dollar rallied. Late in New York, the U.S. currency strengthened to $1.0807 per euro, from $1.1004. The dollar fetched 118.54 yen, up from 117.29 the day before.
Word count: 1035
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Mar 14, 2003
More like this n
Search ProQuest...				;
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Stock prices
U Dow Jones averages
U Daily markets (wsj)
Search
Ebook Central e-books
3.	Britannica Concise Encyclopedia (1)
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398925370/1383F8DB2F268099DA2/3?accountid=14026
2/2