5/26/2017
Sudden Retreat: Markets' Slide Spotlights Risks; After a Rough Morning, A Data Backup Jolts The Blue-Chip Average - ProQuest
More like this + Sudden Retreat: Markets' Slide Spotlights Risks; After a Rough Morning, A Data Backup Jolts The Blue-Chip Average
Scott Patterson, Aaron Lucchetti and Randall Smith. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]28 Feb 2007: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Mike Driscoll, a senior stock trader at Bear Stearns Cos., said he was on the phone around 3 p.m. when the market tanked. "As I'm looking, the market goes down from 250, 260 to down 550 in a heartbeat," Mr. Driscoll said. He quickly theorized -- more or less correctly -- that the sudden downdraft was caused by a backup in reported trading prices on a day of exceptionally heavy trading. When the backup cleared, Mr. Driscoll said, "the dam broke."
At one post on the floor, traders resorted to writing buy and sell orders on a dry-erase board. Most of the letters next to the stock symbols said "S," for "sell."
The NYSE sent an email out to brokerage firms at 5 p.m. acknowledging that some orders remained unfilled at the end of the day. "At this time, all stocks are closed," the NYSE said. "Reports in queue may come back to Member Firms. At this time there is no estimated time as to when reports will arrive."
Full text Translate
The stock market was having a bad day and, briefly, it looked even worse.
Spooked by a selloff of Chinese shares, the Dow Jones Industrial Average started the day under pressure. By midday, the average of 30 blue-chip stocks was already down around 200 points, and it continued to slide through early afternoon.
Suddenly, at about 3 p.m. Eastern time, the Dow industrials fell out of bed, logging one of their fastest declines in history. Behind the abrupt 200-point plunge: a glitch in the mechanism that calculates the average.
"The system fell behind," said Mike Petronella, president of Dow Jones Indexes, which is owned by Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of The Wall Street Journal.
The result briefly made a tough day look like an investor's bad dream.
Until around 2 p.m., the three leading barometers of the nation's stock market -- the DJIA, the Nasdaq Composite Index and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- tracked each other downward, with the Nasdaq performing a tad worse than the other two.
Then, they parted company.
Over the next hour, the Nasdaq and S&P started declining more sharply than the Dow. At 2:59 p.m., the Dow suddenly caught up. Within minutes it was down 4% on the day, roughly matching the performance of its two major counterparts.
Behind the scenes, the team that compiles the DJIA had noticed at about 2 p.m. that heavy trading volume was overwhelming the system, creating a data backlog that was affecting all of the Dow Jones indexes.
The Dow's component stocks were falling, but -- improbably -- the Dow average wasn't falling as much. Just before 3 p.m., the team switched over to a backup computer system. Almost immediately, the Dow caught up, tumbling 200 points, for an eye-popping plunge on the day of more than 500 points.
On Wall Street, the benchmark's dizzying descent set off a frantic guessing game, with traders speculating about whether it was caused by a trading glitch, a single giant computerized trade or a torrent of forced selling into a market that lacked buyers.
Mike Driscoll, a senior stock trader at Bear Stearns Cos., said he was on the phone around 3 p.m. when the market tanked. "As I'm looking, the market goes down from 250, 260 to down 550 in a heartbeat," Mr. Driscoll said. He quickly theorized -- more or less correctly -- that the sudden downdraft was caused by a backup in reported trading prices on a day of exceptionally heavy trading. When the backup cleared, Mr. Driscoll said, "the dam broke."
Mr. Driscoll said that traders who had been bidding for stock at prices $1 below the last sale suddenly had their bids hit, and quickly absorbed losses as prices continued downward. "People were bidding for stocks and all of a sudden they got plugged," he said.
Adding to the confusion, the New York Stock Exchange's new hybrid electronic trading system was overloaded as investors frantically tried to buy and sell shares. The NYSE is now investigating what happened, including whether the Dow Jones problem played a role in the exchange's woes, and what might be done to prevent another trading traffic jam.
Mr. Petronella blamed the problem with the DJIA on a Dow Jones computer system that feeds data to another system that calculates the Dow average and indexes every few seconds and distributes them to the public.
The glitch affected all of Dow Jones's roughly 400 real-time indexes. Futures contracts tied to the Dow Jones indexes weren't affected, Mr. Petronella said, because those contracts are usually calculated by exchanges, such as the American Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade.
Investors who bought or sold shares of the main exchange-traded mutual fund that tracks the Dow -- the Dow Diamond -- probably didn't get erroneous prices because its
share price is based on the actual prices of the Dow's 30 stocks, not on the average itself.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399016729/1383F90E0D934C65FB8/3?accountid=14026
1/3
5/26/2017
Sudden Retreat: Markets' Slide Spotlights Risks; After a Rough Morning, A Data Backup Jolts The Blue-Chip Average - ProQuest
In fact, the price of the Dow ETF fell faster than the average for nearly an hour before the fix was made to the Dow industrials data.
After the Dow problem was resolved, other woes bedeviled traders. About a half hour before the closing bell rang at 4 p.m. Eastern time, traders reported having problems sending electronic buy and sell orders to the NYSE, which recently began converting to a largely electronic system.
At one post on the floor, traders resorted to writing buy and sell orders on a dry-erase board. Most of the letters next to the stock symbols said "S," for "sell."
"Go manual if you can," said Art Cashin, a longtime floor broker for UBS, to traders at about 4 p.m. "Take paper if you have to."
Traders were still negotiating stock closing prices 10 minutes after the 4 p.m. close. "You're done, 50 grand at 74.20," Michael Rutigliano, a floor broker at the NYSE, yelled into his headset shortly after the markets were supposed to have been closed.
Mr. Rutigliano reflected the frustration floor traders are feeling these days, as their role becomes diminished by the electronic age. "We were able to revert to a manual process that never breaks down," he said.
Louis Pastina, an executive overseeing trading systems at the Big Board, said "a rush of orders" in the last hour of trading overwhelmed the exchange's computers, leading to delays and an unknown number of orders that were never completed. Some trades may have been done on alternative markets or in an after-hours crossing session the NYSE extended by a half hour to 5:30 p.m., he said. He added that floor traders were finishing trades manually until around 4:25 p.m., about 20 minutes later than usual.
A spokesman for the NYSE said the new hybrid trading system -- which matches most trades electronically but sends some to traders on the exchange floor -- worked fine, but that another system that feeds it couldn't handle the onslaught of orders.
The NYSE said that circuit breakers delaying the market wouldn't have kicked in unless the DJIA dropped 1,250 points, or about 10%. Trading collars, which restrict some types of trading in volatile markets, worked as designed yesterday, exchange officials said.
The NYSE sent an email out to brokerage firms at 5 p.m. acknowledging that some orders remained unfilled at the end of the day. "At this time, all stocks are closed," the NYSE said. "Reports in queue may come back to Member Firms. At this time there is no estimated time as to when reports will arrive."
Tom Lauricella contributed to this article.
(See related article: "Chinese Shares Tumble, And Investors Reassess U.S. Economic Outlook --- Fleeing to Safe Treasurys" -- WSJ Feb. 28, 2007)
12 JOO
Source Dow Jones Indexes
Yesterday's close: 1221624
Stock Shock
The Dow Jones Industrial Average, at one-minute intervals yesterday:
Recalculated
12200 to adjust for tabulation delay
12100 ..................


(c) 2007 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399016729/1383F90E0D934C65FB8/3?accountid=14026
2/3
5/26/2017
Sudden Retreat: Markets' Slide Spotlights Risks; After a Rough Morning, A Data Backup Jolts The Blue-Chip Average - ProQuest
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Stock prices
U NASDAQ trading
U Securities markets
U Dow Jones averages
Company/organization
LJ Standard & Poors Corp
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Online and Distance Learning, Volumes 1-6 : Concepts, Methodologies, Tool...
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399016729/1383F90E0D934C65FB8/3?accountid=14026
3/3