5/26/2017 Credit Crunch: The Fed Acts: Lehman's Profit, Despite Markdowns, Soothes Some Jitters; Net Falls 3.2%, Less Than Expectations; Added Leverage Cou...
More like this + Credit Crunch: The Fed Acts: Lehman's Profit, Despite Markdowns, Soothes Some Jitters; Net Falls 3.2%, Less Than Expectations; Added Leverage Could Prove Worrisome
Kate Kelly and David Reilly. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Sep 2007: C.2.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
All eyes were on Lehman yesterday as investors looked for signs of what to expect this week as Morgan Stanley, Bear Stearns Cos. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are scheduled to weigh in with earnings. Lehman, a big player in the bond market hit hard by the recent trouble in the "subprime" business of issuing risky mortgages that has shaken the broader stock market, set the tone in terms of markdowns, taking a $700 million loss on assets that have fallen in value in recent months. At the same time, Chief Financial Officer Christopher O'Meara said "the worst of the credit correction is behind us."
While the firm declined to give specifics on the markdowns, known as "haircuts," a back-of-the-envelope calculation indicated that given Lehman's write-down of between $1 billion and $2 billion on loan losses and a total estimated deal commitment of $30 billion, valuations may have fallen 5% or 6% off their original price, according to Michael Peterson, an analyst who covers brokerages for Pzena Investment Management.
In an interview, Mr. O'Meara said the additional leverage wasn't a "meaningful increase" and didn't reflect a change in strategy.
Full Text Translate
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the first major Wall Street brokerage out of the gate with results for the tumultuous third quarter, took its medicine and delivered solid results despite sharp markdowns of some of its mortgage and deal-debt holdings. Still, investors have reason to be concerned.
Lehman posted profit of $887 million, or $1.54 a share, for its fiscal third quarter ended Aug. 31, a decrease of 3.2% from the same period last year and 32% less than the prior quarter.
That performance topped analyst expectations by a slight margin, according to Thomson Financial, which published a consensus estimate of $1.47 a share. Helped by gains in investment banking, money management and interest, revenue rose to $4.31 billion, a 3.1% uptick from a year earlier.
Investors, buoyed by a Federal Reserve rate cut and the better-than- expected results, sent Lehman shares up $5.87, or 10%, to $64.49 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It was the brokerage's largest one-day gain since April 2001.
All eyes were on Lehman yesterday as investors looked for signs of what to expect this week as Morgan Stanley, Bear Stearns Cos. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are scheduled to weigh in with earnings. Lehman, a big player in the bond market hit hard by the recent trouble in the "subprime" business of issuing risky mortgages that has shaken the broader stock market, set the tone in terms of markdowns, taking a $700 million loss on assets that have fallen in value in recent months. At the same time, Chief Financial Officer Christopher O'Meara said "the worst of the credit correction is behind us."
The $700 million in markdowns were cushioned, Mr. O'Meara said, by a combination of short, or bearish, positions on certain securities and a variety of hedges Lehman used to protect itself. More broadly, he added, the firm's diverse business mix shielded it from more significant losses during the quarter.
Still, Mr. O'Meara said the difficulty of selling loan commitments to third parties and the lack of buyers for securitized mortgages caused Lehman to take $10.3 billion in assets onto its balance sheet, a move it wouldn't likely have make under calmer market conditions.
Of that total, $4 billion is deal financing, and most of the remaining $6.3 billion is newly originated home loans that haven't been sold off as part of securitized products, he said. Bringing such loans and securities onto its books could subject Lehman to losses if markets continue to erode. The move also ties up a portion of the firm's balance sheet it might have wanted to deploy elsewhere.
One data point investors focused on yesterday was the percentage markdown Lehman appeared to be taking on its leveraged loan commitments as it tried to sell off deal financing to third parties at depressed prices.
While the firm declined to give specifics on the markdowns, known as "haircuts," a back-of-the-envelope calculation indicated that given Lehman's write-down of between $1 billion and $2 billion on loan losses and a total estimated deal commitment of $30 billion, valuations may have fallen 5% or 6% off their original price, according to Michael Peterson, an analyst who covers brokerages for Pzena Investment Management.
"They showed again that the hedges work, the risk management works, and they have a diversified business," Mr. Peterson said.
Partly as a result of taking the assets onto its books, Lehman increased its leverage, or borrowed capital, to a level 16 times its tangible equity capital, a 4% upswing from the second quarter and a 19% rise from the third quarter of last year.
In an interview, Mr. O'Meara said the additional leverage wasn't a "meaningful increase" and didn't reflect a change in strategy.
Word count: 616
(c) 2007 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
httpM://seoarrche.prloiqkueest.ctohm.itusring.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399026870/1383F938504C7BACBD/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017 Credit Crunch: The Fed Acts: Lehman's Profit, Despite Markdowns, Soothes Some Jitters; Net Falls 3.2%, Less Than Expectations; Added Leverage Cou...
More like this
n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Financial performance
U Profits
U Brokers
Company/organization
U Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399026870/1383F938504C7BACBD/3?accountid=14026
2/2