5/26/2017
Dow Falls 348.22, as Pressure Dogs Insurers; Recession Worries Trump Bailout Hope; 'A Vortex of Selling' - ProQuest
More like this +
Dow Falls 348.22, as Pressure Dogs Insurers; Recession Worries Trump Bailout Hope; 'A Vortex of Selling'
McKay, Peter A j>}. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Oct 2008: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
New data showed a seven-year high in jobless claims and a plunge in factory orders, underscoring woes in nonfinancial sectors of the economy.
Full Text Translate
Markets tumbled again as increasing evidence of recession overshadowed hopes that a government plan to shore up the financial system would be approved by Congress.
Stocks and commodities slid, prices for Treasury securities rose sharply, banks remained wary of lending and European currencies slumped amid worries that economic weakness there will deepen.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average plummeted 348.22 points, or 3.2%, to end at 10482.85, just 117 points above its Monday close, which followed the biggest one-day point decline in its history. The Dow is down 21% in 2008, with less than three months to go in the year.
The blue-chip measure was hurt Thursday by a 9.6% slide in its component General Electric ahead of pricing of the company's $12 billion public offering. All but four of the 30 Dow stocks posted declines.
"What we have now is a vortex of selling that just feeds on itself. Hedge funds are tripping over other hedge funds to get out," said Doug Kass, president of hedge fund Seabreeze Partners Management. "The economy appears to have fallen off a cliff in September."
New data showed a seven-year high in jobless claims and a plunge in factory orders, underscoring woes in nonfinancial sectors of the economy. Friday's report from the Labor Department is expected to report a big decline in nonfarm payrolls in September.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 8.7%, its biggest decline since the day the stock market reopened after the terrorist attacks of 2001, on concerns that there won't be much need to move goods around as the U.S. economy weakens.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 46.78 points, or 4%, to 1114.28. All its sectors ended lower, led by the most economically sensitive categories. Basic materials slid 8.4%, industrials were off 7.2%, and energy was down 6.2%.
Stocks that declined outpaced those that rose by a ratio of more than five to one. Prices of raw materials were hit hard amid fears of sagging demand because of the global economy's weakness. Crude-oil futures fell 4.6% to $93.97 a barrel in New York. Gold contracts suffered their worst drop since March, falling 4.7% to $839 per troy ounce in New York. The broad Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index shed almost 4.5%.
Investors fled to Treasurys as a safe haven. The yield on three- month bills fell to around 0.6%, down from about 0.8% late Wednesday.
The U.S. commercial-paper market, which banks and other companies use to fund short-term obligations such as payrolls and inventories, remained under pressure. The decline in the amount of commercial paper outstanding in September was the largest drop since the Federal Reserve began tracking such data in 1991.
Although investors were hopeful that a financial-rescue plan would be approved by the House after passage Wednesday night by the Senate, they are increasingly coming to the bleak realization that at best, it would only minimize, not reverse, the economic pain that lies ahead.
"We've been focusing on the bailout so much in the last two weeks, it's almost like we haven't been paying attention to the economic signs that would usually be a big deal for us," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies & Co. "The economic data look atrocious."
Word count: 537
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
Search ProQuest...				;
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399026199/1384383F36F782DF3CF/3?accountid=14026
1/1