5/26/2017
Quarterly Markets Review: Warily We Roll Along: Investors Look To Washington After a Bumpy Quarter - ProQuest
More like this + Quarterly Markets Review: Warily We Roll Along: Investors Look To Washington After a Bumpy Quarter
Lauricella, Tom. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Oct 2008: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were taken over by the government, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection, Merrill Lynch & Co. was acquired, American International Group Inc. gave the government control of the company in return for an $85 billion loan, Washington Mutual Inc. was seized by federal regulators and the bulk of its operations sold off, and regulators orchestrated the sale of Wachovia Corp. Meanwhile, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley survived only as a result of large infusions of cash and a decision to give up the traditional Wall Street investment-bank model, turning themselves into commercial banks so they can borrow from the Federal Reserve. Despite a worsening job market and the rising tide of mortgage delinquencies, consumer-discretionary stocks were also more buoyant than the broader market -- falling just 1% -- as oil prices declined and some investors began to think a recession was already built into share prices.
Full text Translate
The stock market heads into the final quarter of the year solidly in bear-market territory and roiled by uncertainty.
Even before the House of Representatives voted down the financial- markets rescue plan Monday and stocks collapsed in a frenzy of selling, there were few expectations of a quick rebound. Yet hopes remain that if a credible solution emerges to stabilize the financial system, conditions would be in place for stocks to begin a slow recovery.
"Emotions and fear are dictating where prices are," says Bill Knapp, investment strategist at MainStay Investments. "You need to get back to the point where people can look at the market objectively."
For now, the financial markets are being held hostage by developments in Washington. Until there is certainty about what steps the government will take to shore up the market for bad mortgage loans and investments at the center of the financial-market distress, investors are wary.
"Many of us were counting on the bill to reduce the downside" for the stock market, says Robert Doll, BlackRock Inc.'s global chief investment officer for equities. "All of a sudden that's back on the table."
Given the events of the past month, it is a wonder stocks weren't down more. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 4.4% in the latest quarter and is down 23% from its peak last October. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is off 9% from the end of June and down 26% from its high. The Nasdaq Composite Index, meanwhile, dropped 9.2% in the third quarter and is 27% below its multiyear high set last Halloween.
That certainly qualifies as a bad quarter, but on a percentage basis it doesn't even break into the top-ten worst quarters for the S&P 500 and is only the 25th-worst quarter of all time for the Dow.
There were jaw-dropping, historic events in the quarter's final month. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were taken over by the government, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection, Merrill Lynch & Co. was acquired, American International Group Inc. gave the government control of the company in return for an $85 billion loan, Washington Mutual Inc. was seized by federal regulators and the bulk of its operations sold off, and regulators orchestrated the sale of Wachovia Corp.
Meanwhile, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley survived only as a result of large infusions of cash and a decision to give up the traditional Wall Street investment-bank model, turning themselves into commercial banks so they can borrow from the Federal Reserve.
The worst turmoil was in the credit markets, especially after Lehman filed for bankruptcy protection Sept. 15. Many investors bailed out of any debt that wasn't backed by the U.S. government, and lending between banks ground to a halt. Corporate borrowing costs soared, if businesses could borrow at all. As fear gripped global financial markets, major stock-market indexes in the U.S. sank to what were then new lows for the year.
For a time the markets stabilized on the promise of a rescue plan. But on Sept. 29, after traders and investors watched with disbelief the House's rejection of the bailout bill, stocks were swept by waves of selling. Traders described panic conditions as long-term investors dumped stocks and rushed into cash. The Dow suffered its biggest point drop in history and closed at its lowest level in three years, which amounted to a 27% decline from the record close hit last October.
On the final day of the quarter, stocks staged a rebound amid hopes Congress will approve a rescue plan sooner rather than later. The Dow gained 485.21 points, or 4.7%, to 10850.66.
On the surface, the third-quarter losses in stocks seemed like a continuation of the first half of the year, but underneath there were some notable differences. Despite bleak headlines about banks and brokerage firms in distress, financial stocks in the S&P ended the quarter essentially flat from three months ago as some healthier banks and smaller institutions posted gains. Despite a worsening job market and the rising tide of mortgage delinquencies, consumer-discretionary stocks were also more buoyant than the broader market -- falling just 1% -- as oil prices declined and some investors began to think a recession was already built into share prices.
Real damage was done to the stocks that had done well during the first half of 2008: energy and materials. Many commodities' prices dropped like a stone as it became
clear the global economy was slowing along with the U.S.'s. The most visible reversal was oil, which finished the third quarter down 28% from the end of June. Against this
backdrop, energy stocks in the S&P 500 lost 25% and materials stocks fell 23%. The drop in commodities also reflected dashed expectations that the U.S. economy could
rebound by the final quarter of this year. For many, the question is how far into 2009 -- or even 2010 -- it will it take for a meaningful recovery to take hold.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399124038/138438024222949C79B/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017
Quarterly Markets Review: Warily We Roll Along: Investors Look To Washington After a Bumpy Quarter - ProQuest
"We think this is going to be a long, slow, dragged-out thing," says Louis Morrell, who oversees the endowment for Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C. Mr. Morrell says he is braced for another year and a half before the markets can really improve.
For that reason, many strategists argue that earnings forecasts are still too high. Mean forecasts collected by Thomson Reuters still call for S&P 500 earnings to hit a record in the fourth quarter and in 2009, a feat few think will actually happen. Throughout the year, analysts have had to substantially lower their estimates. Third- quarter operating earnings on the S&P 500, for example, are expected to be down 1.7%. On July 1, analysts were projecting they would rise 12.6%.
Strategist Subodh Kumar, of Subodh Kumar & Associates, says that "at this stage, analysts' estimates are quite high." However, he feels with the S&P 500 having hit a low near 1100, the market has factored in the kind of peak-to-trough earnings decline seen in the last bear market. With the big quarter-end selloff, "we may not have to worry too much about analysts cutting back earnings estimates."
The good news is that if Congress can regroup and quickly put together a financial-market bailout that gets to the heart of the problem and eases conditions in the credit markets, the consensus is that the worst of the economic weakness should hit within the next six months. If history holds true, the stock market bottoms several months before the economy.
But unlike during the last bear market and recession, when consumers spent freely -- a buying binge fueled by the easy credit currently coming back to haunt us -- few are looking for a big bounce in consumer discretionary stocks, such as autos, hotels or gambling. That is the case even though, as a group, those stocks were up during the third quarter.
"In this cycle, I think it will take a much longer time to work out things on the consumer side," says Conrad Herrmann, portfolio manager of the Franklin Flex Cap Growth Fund and a senior vice president at Franklin Global Advisers.
And despite the gains in financials as a group, significant risks remain among individual stocks, as evidenced by Wachovia's collapse this week. Even with the government bailout, there are considerable headwinds facing financial companies' earnings power, which could prevent them from playing their usual role as the sector that rallies first and fastest in a stock-market recovery.
For now, however, many investors have hunkered down. Wake Forest's Mr. Morrell thinks the environment will favor consumer staples, a traditionally defensive sector that includes basic foods and supermarkets and one that has been a haven throughout much of 2008. The potential for big returns in staples in low, "but it's positive," he says.
Dow Rewind: The Industrials' Th»d-Quarter Performance
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Stock prices
U Dow Jones averages
U Daily markets (wsj)
Search
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399124038/138438024222949C79B/3?accountid=14026
2/2