5/26/2017
Stocks Rally on Oil, Fed Signals - ProQuest
More like this +
Stocks Rally on Oil, Fed Signals
Browning, E S. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Aug 2008: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Plunging oil prices and reassuring signals from the Federal Reserve combined to spur hopes that the worst could be over for stocks, driving the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Tuesday to its sharpest one-day gain since April 1.
Full text Translate
Plunging oil prices and reassuring signals from the Federal Reserve combined to spur hopes that the worst could be over for stocks, driving the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Tuesday to its sharpest one-day gain since April 1.
This was hardly the first time since the bear market began in October that stocks have staged a strong rebound. Skeptical investors warned that this could be another false start: A potential recession is looming, the financial system is in disarray and housing prices continue to fall amid mounting foreclosures.
But hopeful investors were shaking off those precedents, buying beaten-down financial stocks and even home builders. Their logic: If the Fed can avoid raising interest rates now, and if oil prices can keep falling, any recession may be shallow. Since investors tend to buy stocks six months ahead of a recovery, some conclude now is the time to buy.
"We have got a strong probability that this rally off the July 15 lows is the real deal," said David Sowerby, a portfolio manager who helps oversee $20 billion in stock investments at Boston-based money- management firm Loomis, Sayles & Co. "This time it is infinitely different" than during the failed rallies of previous months, he said, adding that his firm recently bought shares in a home builder, Pulte Homes Inc., and in bigger, safer-seeming financial stocks such as U.S. Bancorp.
The result of this resurgent optimism was a gain of 331.62 points, or 2.9%, in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, to 11615.77. That is a jump of 6% from its July 15 bearmarket low. Back then, the Dow was 23% below its October record; now it is 18% off its peak.
Other indexes showed similar gains, and some of the most battered sectors led the way. Financial stocks as a group surged more than 5%, with beleaguered stocks rising the most. Banking group Wachovia jumped 11% and mortgage investor Fannie Mae leapt 15%. The Dow Jones Transportation Average rose 4.9% amid hopes for the economy.
Stocks had sagged Friday and Monday amid concerns about recession, inflation, financial woes and inconsistent corporate profits. On Tuesday they took off right at the opening bell, as the Fed held a regularly scheduled meeting to consider interest rates. Investors bet that the Fed would leave its target overnight-lending rate unchanged, and also that it wouldn't signal plans to raise rates in coming months. They were correct on both counts.
Only one Fed policy maker dissented from the decision to leave rates unchanged. The Fed's statement was read by many investors as an artful effort to combine tough talk on the need to fight inflation with subtle signals that no rate increases are in the offing.
Perhaps the single biggest contributor to the optimism about the Fed and about stocks has been the sudden decline in oil prices, which continued with a $2.24 drop in oil futures on Tuesday to $119.17 a barrel. That was the lowest finish since May 2. Although oil remains expensive by historical standards, the pullback seems significant to many investors, since futures were at $145.29 one month ago. Oil is far from cheap -- futures remain up 65% in the past 52 weeks, but are off 18% since July 3.
"After paying more than $4 a gallon for gas, somehow now $3.80 doesn't seem so bad -- even though, compared to a year ago, it is horrible," said portfolio manager Charles Crane at Scotsman Capital Management, which supervises $200 million in New York. "The market seems to have that kind of attitude adjustment going on."
Mr. Crane said he believes the chances are better than 50-50 that stocks hit bottom in July and now are climbing out.
"If you are a long-term investor as opposed to a trader, you see a perspective for long-term growth 18 months or two years from now, with stocks favorably valued," he said.
Even more bullish, in this view, was that metals, food and other commodities were falling along with oil, reducing inflationary pressures and making it easier for the economy to grow anew. On Tuesday copper futures had fallen 7% over the past three days, to their lowest level in six months. Futures for the metal have fallen 15% since July 2.
Corn, which affects both food and ethanol prices, has fallen 30% from its June 27 high, to its lowest close since March.
The respite in commodity prices reflects the slowing of economic growth around the world, which has cooled demand for a broad range of commodities. The optimistic view is that lower gasoline prices will make it easier for consumers to spend money, and lower prices of industrial commodities will make it easier for companies to do business. All of that should ease the downward pressure on the world economy, making any recession shorter and shallower.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399104711/138436578301D86D257/3?accountid=14026
1/2
Pessimists reply that, as soon as lower commodity prices start boosting economic growth, it will stimulate demand for commodities in places like China and India, which
will send commodity prices higher again. In that view, the commodity-price pullback is only a temporary respite for the economy and for financial markets. Pessimists
believe commodity prices, including oil prices, could soon be rising again, hurting growth and forcing central banks to boost interest rates in order to ease inflation. Higher
interest rates, in turn, would further hobble growth and make stocks less attractive compared with cash and bonds.
5/26/2017
Stocks Rally on Oil, Fed Signals - ProQuest
It was "almost ridiculous" for the market to jump on news that the Fed wasn't raising interest rates, said Janna Sampson, co-chief investment officer at OakBrook
Investments, which manages $1.4 billion in Lisle, Ill., outside Chicago. "Not raising rates because the economy is so bad shouldn't cause the market to go up. Obviously,
rising inflation with slowing growth isn't a good thing for the stock market," she said.
The market's recent gains have had more to do with the sudden downturn in oil prices, which caught some traders by surprise, she said. The market could well slip back down again in August and September, she added.
That kind of thinking has many investors holding back from buying, despite the market's recent upturn. They note that the current recovery started after the Fed and the Treasury Department announced a plan to support mortgage investors Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. They recall that the last time the market seemed to be on the mend was in March, after the Fed stepped in to help rescue Bear Stearns Cos. That stock recovery proved short-lived.
Indeed, three times during 2008, the market has posted even larger one-day gains than it did on Tuesday, only to fall back to new lows.
Despite her worries, however, Ms. Sampson hasn't been selling stocks lately. If anything, she has been buying. While she is avoiding banks with big mortgage exposure, she has bought shares of some she considers solid, such as J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and State Street Corp.
"I think that once we get into the fourth quarter we will see the market move back up," she said.
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Economic conditions
LJ Interest rates
LJ Inflation
LJ Bear markets
U Investment policy
U Crude oil prices
U Federal Reserve monetary policy
U Stock prices
U Dow Jones averages
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Almanac Investor Series : Stock Trader's Almanac 2015 (11)
2.	Dividends Still Don't Lie : The Truth about Investing in Blue Chip Stocks...
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399104711/138436578301D86D257/3?accountid=14026
2/2