5/26/2017
Stocks Begin New Quarter With Big Gains; Dow Rises 391.47 Points On Resurgent Optimism; Will It Last This Time? - ProQuest
More like this +
Stocks Begin New Quarter With Big Gains; Dow Rises 391.47 Points On Resurgent Optimism; Will It Last This Time?
Browning, E S. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]02 Apr 2008: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The Dow's resilience followed news of multi-billion-dollar new-share issues by U.S. brokerage firm Lehman Brothers Holdings and Swiss banking group UBS, as well as multi-billion-dollar write-downs by UBS and Deutsche Bank.
Full text Translate
The Dow Jones Industrial Average began the new quarter by surging almost 400 points, its sixth gain of more than 300 points since September.
The market's volatility has become a fact of life since credit markets seized up last summer. Before then, the Dow hadn't recorded a daily gain of 300 points or more since 2002.
The Dow surged 391.47 points, or 3.2%, to 12654.36. That brought the blue-chip average back almost to its close of 12694.28 on Feb. 27, a level the Dow hasn't surpassed since. Wall Street will be watching whether the Dow now rises significantly higher, or pulls back yet again.
The industrial average is down 11% from its record 14164.53, hit Oct. 9 of last year, though that is a significant recovery since its finish on March 10, when it was down 17% from its record.
Pessimists pointed out that sharp one-day gains often occur during bear markets. But investors lately have been focusing more on resurgent optimism, at least for shortrun prospects. Tuesday's move was the third gain of 390 points or more in less than a month. After each of last year's three 300-point advances, the Dow eventually gave back the gains and fell to a new low.
The Dow's resilience followed news of multi-billion-dollar new-share issues by U.S. brokerage firm Lehman Brothers Holdings and Swiss banking group UBS, as well as multi-billion-dollar write-downs by UBS and Deutsche Bank. The share issues, together with hopes that financial firms may finally be reaching an end to the write-downs, spurred the buying. Lehman shares soared 18% and the American depositary shares of UBS gained nearly 15%.
Together with a broader view that the Federal Reserve will do what it takes to support the financial system, the financial news strengthened hopes that the stock market might be due for at least a temporary rebound. Investors noted that, with an average gain of 1.8%, since 1950, April has been the Dow's strongest month since 1950, according to the Stock Trader's Almanac, a phenomenon sometimes credited in part to tax refunds.
The strong day also helped intensify the debate about whether the stock declines of the past six months are ending now, or just in a pause.
"While I'm encouraged by the recent market action, I'm not ready to say that this short-term bounce is a reversal of the downtrend that began back on Oct. 9," New York money manager Robert Pavlik of Oaktree Asset Management said in a report. "You have to approach any rally with some cautiousness" until you see a clear sign that stocks have broken out of their recent pattern of ups and downs, he said.
Regardless of which way stocks go in the next few months, Mr. Pavlik said, he is becoming more hopeful for the second half of the year.
But he added that the market will be facing some significant challenges in the next few weeks. On Friday comes the government's report on March employment levels, which will indicate how deeply economic troubles are affecting jobs. And starting next week come first-quarter profit reports, which will signal how widely the troubles have spread beyond financial and housing-related companies.
Beaten-down financial stocks led the day's gains, with one index of financial stocks rising more than 7%.
The dollar rebounded, helped by weak economic news from Japan and by the write-downs at European banks. Commodities including gold, oil and copper, which had been rising on dollar weakness, fell back.
Investors got reports on March manufacturing activity, February construction and chain-store sales for last week. All were weak, but not quite as weak as feared, which reinforced hopes for stocks.
Some investors remained skeptical, noting that the gains were enhanced by so-called short covering. To bet on stock declines, short sellers borrow shares and sell them, hoping to profit by buying them back more cheaply later. When stocks seem likely to rebound, even temporarily, short sellers often cover their bets by buying shares, accelerating any gains.
Some hopeful investors continue to worry about the economic outlook.
"The market has gotten some news that indicates that the world is not going to come to an end, and as a result has been able to rally," said Gordon Fowler, chief investment
officer at Philadelphia money- management firm Glenmede Trust. "The more interesting longer-term question is whether the U.S. consumer economy can rebound
forcefully."
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399033496/1383FA25EC977A27728/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017
Stocks Begin New Quarter With Big Gains; Dow Rises 391.47 Points On Resurgent Optimism; Will It Last This Time? - ProQuest
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.6%, or 47.48 points, to 1370.18 -- its strongest gain to open a second quarter, in percentage terms, since 1938. It remains down 12% from its October record. The Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 3.7%, or 83.65 points, to 2362.75, down 17% from the six-year high it hit in October.
Treasury-bond prices fell heavily as investors moved money away from their relative safety and toward stocks.
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Stock prices
U Dow Jones averages
LJ Daily markets (wsj)
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Scale and Scope Tlie Dynamics of Industrial (Capitalism Alfred I).
Chandkr.Jr.
Bloomberg Financial : Large-Cap Portfolio : Value Investing and the Hidde...
2
Scale and Scope : The Dynamics of Industrial Capitalism
3.
iN.JUL.rn/
NEW Y&RK CITY
i ~— i
The Encyclopedia of New York City (2)
Provided by Northwestern University Library ***
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399033496/1383FA25EC977A27728/3?accountid=14026
2/2