5/30/2017
Stock Investors Pull ' Rally' Lever; Dow Rises 305.45 Points Before Election News; Asia Gains Continue Wednesday - ProQuest
More like this +
Stock Investors Pull 'Rally' Lever; Dow Rises 305.45 Points Before Election News;
Asia Gains Continue Wednesday
Joanna Slater, Peter A. McKay and Liz Rappaport. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Nov 2008: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The Nikkei Stock Average surged ahead 3.2% in midday trading after Sen. Barack Obama was declared the next president of the U.S. This followed a 6.3% rally on Tuesday -when the renewed appetite for risk-taking had started, leaping from Asia to Europe to the U.S. Oil and other commodity prices rose, as did corporate bonds and emergingmarket stocks and currencies.
Full Text Translate
A wave of optimism rippled across global markets, sending U.S. stocks to their highest close in nearly a month and boosting a host of risky assets.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 305.45 points, or 3.3%, to 9625.28, its best Election Day performance ever, with gains in all but one of its 30 components.
Stock rallies continued early Wednesday across Asia. The Nikkei Stock Average surged ahead 3.2% in midday trading after Sen. Barack Obama was declared the next president of the U.S. This followed a 6.3% rally on Tuesday -- when the renewed appetite for risk-taking had started, leaping from Asia to Europe to the U.S.
Oil and other commodity prices rose, as did corporate bonds and emerging-market stocks and currencies.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.1%, or 39.45 points, to 1005.75. All its sectors ended higher, led by a 6.8% gain in energy on the back of the biggest jump in oil prices since late September. Crude-oil futures jumped 10%, or $6.62, to settle at $70.53 a barrel in New York.
Continued improvement in credit conditions helped market sentiment. Mostly, though, investors seemed cheered by the prospect that the long, contentious U.S. presidential-election campaign was drawing to a close.
"The markets love clarity and we haven't had a lot of it, so that was one of the catalysts," said Joe Cusick, senior market analyst for optionsXpress, a brokerage firm.
In recent days, some of the selling pressure on various assets has eased. Investors have begun tiptoeing back into battered corners of the markets.
Some safe-haven plays, meanwhile, have suffered. The U.S. dollar dropped Tuesday against a host of rivals, particularly the euro. Currencies linked to commodity prices, such as the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar, continued to claw back some of their recent losses against the greenback.
Still, there is no guarantee that this temporary spell of confidence will last, especially in light of the challenges facing the global economy and corporate earnings. Trading volume of New York Stock Exchange-listed shares was relatively light Tuesday, a sign that some investors remain on the sidelines.
Among the beneficiaries of the brief recovery in risk appetite are stocks, bonds and currencies in emerging markets. Brazilian shares jumped 5.2% Tuesday and the country's currency, the real, strengthened against the dollar.
In another sign of diminishing anxiety, investors also are diving back into corporate bonds. The junk-bond market rallied along with stocks, as bonds of lenders such as GMAC and Ford Motor Credit gained ground.
Financial institutions are becoming more comfortable lending to one another as unprecedented efforts by central banks to inject money into the financial system and lower interest rates start to take effect. The one-month U.S. dollar London interbank offered rate, or Libor, fell to 2.17% Tuesday, its lowest level since 2004, from 2.38% Monday.
Even as riskier types of assets recovered, Treasury bonds gained, in a move related to a rally in mortgage-backed securities.
Markets are showing signs of stabilizing after a brutal October that included wild intraday swings in market benchmarks.
Tuesday's rally in the Dow industrials outpaced the previous record for a presidential Election Day, a gain of 1.2% in 1984 as President Ronald Reagan cruised to a landslide second-term victory over Walter Mondale.
Word count: 542
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
Search ProQuest...			/f	
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399035666/13843ADEA6A5188C366/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Stock Investors Pull ' Rally' Lever; Dow Rises 305.45 Points Before Election News; Asia Gains Continue Wednesday - ProQuest
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Dow Jones averages
U Stock prices
U Daily markets (wsj)
Location
U United States--US
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits
Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399035666/13843ADEA6A5188C366/3?accountid=14026
2/2