5/26/2017
Market's Fall Raises Fears on Banks; Fed Mulls Steps to Ease Investment in Lenders; Parallels to the Tech Bust - ProQuest
More like this + Market's Fall Raises Fears on Banks; Fed Mulls Steps to Ease Investment in Lenders; Parallels to the Tech Bust
Browning, E S. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 June 2008: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The stock charts on some of America's leading bank and brokerage shares are starting to look similar to the declines of tech giants like Cisco Systems, Amazon.com and Dell after the tech bubble began losing air in early 2000. Some investors expressed concern that the Federal Reserve, which left its target interest rate unchanged this week, could be in a tough spot: needing to raise rates to fight inflation, but reluctant to do so for fear of stifling the economy.
Full text Translate
Stocks fell to their lowest point of the year, pausing just above bear-market territory. The sustained drop, led once again by banks and brokers, is heightening regulators' concerns about the health of the battered U.S. financial sector.
In a possible sign of those concerns, the Federal Reserve is considering steps to make it easier for private-equity firms and others to invest in banks, say regulators and other people familiar with the matter.
Adding to the anxiety: The past months' cascading fall is reminiscent of how technology stocks led the way to the last bear market after the dot-com boom. The stock charts on some of America's leading bank and brokerage shares are starting to look similar to the declines of tech giants like Cisco Systems, Amazon.com and Dell after the tech bubble began losing air in early 2000.
On Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 358.41 points, to 11453.42. It's now down 19% from its October record and just 122 points from being off 20%. Investors typically take a 20% drop in a major index to mean a bear market is under way.
Financial shares declined on the back of downgrades by Wall Street analysts and the end-of-quarter worries about coming profit news. But the Thursday decline had multiple causes. Oil prices hit a record, jumping 3.8% to settle at $139.64 a barrel after trading above $140. Some businesses, such as Oracle and BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion, offered pessimistic forecasts.
Some investors expressed concern that the Federal Reserve, which left its target interest rate unchanged this week, could be in a tough spot: needing to raise rates to fight inflation, but reluctant to do so for fear of stifling the economy. That worry helped stoke inflation fears and weighed on the dollar.
The Bush administration has been focused on the fragility of the financial system, pushing financial institutions to build capital.
There is little it can do to bolster the stock market. But the Fed has been hands-on in the credit markets, coming out with a variety of innovative programs that have at key junctures helped alleviate stresses in those markets. Central banks world-wide are widely expected to raise interest rates in coming months to fight inflation, which would put pressure on financial companies, stock markets and the world economy.
That said, there are some tools at the government's disposal. One involves the steps the Federal Reserve is considering to make it easier for private-equity firms and others to invest in banks. A number of banks have been able to bolster their balance sheets by raising money from institutional investors and foreign governments, but most of those investments are under water. Now, the supply of capital from such investors may be running out, leaving some banks that need cash vulnerable. Making it easier for private-equity firms to take significant ownership stakes in banks would open another spigot of capital, bankers believe.
Amid Thursday's gloom, the dollar weakened, and gold, which often rises in times of investor fear, surged $33.10 to $913.10. That rise of 3.8% was gold's biggest percentage gain in two years.
Frazzled investors sent money to the relative safety of government bonds, pushing the price of the 10-year Treasury note up 21/32, or $6.56 for every $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.033%.
Gloom prevailed on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. "There doesn't seem to be a galvanizing item that will make this stop and reverse," said Gordon Charlop of brokerage firm Rosenblatt Securities. Like many traders interviewed in the last hour of trading, Mr. Charlop said he feared stock prices would continue to slide.
The 3.03% decline in the Dow was its second-heaviest percentage drop this year and left the index at its lowest level since September 2006.
For this month alone, the Dow is off 9.4%. If it doesn't rebound Friday or Monday, June would be its worst month since 2002. It would also be the Dow's worst June performance since 1930.
Other indexes also fell heavily Thursday. The Standard & Poor's 500- stock index was down 2.9%, leaving it 18% below its October record. As trading resumed in Asia Friday, stock markets across the region posted sharp losses.
Financial stocks, ranging from the big Wall Street brokers to regional banks, have been tumbling since the start of May. The declines have accelerated as it has become
evident the bad-debt problems that have plagued them for the past year won't disappear anytime soon.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399009740/1384353306970FD9DB1/3?accountid=14026
1/3
5/26/2017
Market's Fall Raises Fears on Banks; Fed Mulls Steps to Ease Investment in Lenders; Parallels to the Tech Bust - ProQuest
On Thursday, Citigroup fell 6.3% to a 10-year low, Bank of America gave up 6.8%, and Washington Mutual plunged 9%. Brokerage firms also suffered, with Lehman Brothers down 8.4% and Merrill Lynch falling 6.8%.
In some ways, the bank-stock declines reminded investors of the collapse in technology stocks in the bear market that began in 2000, or the fall of energy stocks after oil prices peaked in the early 1980s. Before the tech wreck ended, Cisco Systems had fallen 89% and Amazon.com 92%. The Dow Jones Wilshire Bank Index now has lost half its value since February 2007 and is at its lowest level since 1997.
Citigroup, once the nation's largest banking company by market value, has seen its stock fall 69% from its 2006 high, to a 10-year low. Washington Mutual, a leading mortgage lender, is down 89% from its 2003 high, and stands at its lowest level since 1991. Merrill Lynch has tumbled 66% to its lowest finish since 2003. Lehman Brothers is down 74%, at its lowest since 2002.
The financials haven't fallen as rapidly as tech stocks did after their boom ended. At this stage in its decline, the tech-stock- dominated Nasdaq Composite Index was down 60%, about 10 percentage points more than the financials have fallen.
Banks, however, are the lifeblood of an economy -- playing a much bigger role than technology companies.
The problem in a nutshell, said Marc Stern, chief investment officer at asset manager Bessemer Trust, is that banks and other financial firms borrowed too much money to create and invest in complex financial vehicles such as mortgage-backed bonds. Now, with their balance sheets burdened with billions of dollars in bad loans and loanbased securities for which there are few buyers, they must raise large amounts of fresh capital from investors.
They also must reduce the amount of money they borrow and stop lending so aggressively. Particularly daunting, they must rebuild a lending system that grew rapidly based on the idea that banks could clear loans off their books by turning them into securities and selling them on to other investors. So many questionable securities were created that most investors are wary of that system, and banks don't yet have a substitute.
"Many financial institutions will need to remake themselves, which entails a lot of uncertainty about how they will be successful," Mr. Stern said. "Particularly at a time when their balance sheets are under great stress, it is going to be very difficult for them."
More broadly, "it does mean that economic growth is likely to be slower than it would have been," said Mr. Stern, whose organization manages $50 billion in New York, primarily for wealthy families.
Some money managers bought financial stocks in March in hopes they had hit bottom. Although they have been burned, some of these investors still believe that the stocks soon will indeed hit bottom and turn higher. Mr. Stern said he looks forward to buying financials in the future, but not until they have fallen more and the companies have restructured further.
He noted that at the peak of their activity, major brokerage firms were using borrowed money that represented an average of about 27 times their capital, a level that proved unsustainable.
There are significant differences between the financials and the technology stocks. While some tech stocks soared with little or no profits during the dot-com and telecom boom, banks earned their gains. Of all 10 industry groups in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the financials have turned in the highest profits quarter after quarter since 1995, according to Standard & Poor's -- a streak with few precedents aside from oil-company strength in the 1970s. Financials reached 30% of total profits in the first quarter of 2007, a time when they represented about 22% of the index's market value.
Although the financial stocks' economic influence has been greater than that of the tech companies, the stocks themselves never have dominated the market as the tech shares did.
Financials have had their versions of Pets.com, as mortgage lender New Century Financial collapsed and brokerage firm Bear Stearns was saved from collapse by Fed intervention. But the financials never soared as high as the techs. The financials never were as overvalued in terms of their actual profits -- although, as with tech companies, the profits themselves turned out to be suspect.
At their peak in March 2000, tech stocks represented 35% of the S&P 500's market value, and at their low in 2002, they had fallen to 12.6%, according to Ned Davis Research in Venice, Fla. Energy stocks represented 31% of the S&P 500 in November 1980, and fell to 15% by the end of 1983.
Financial stocks never rose to more than 23% of the S&P 500, and now have fallen to around 14% or 15% of the index, overtaken by energy stocks and technology stocks.
Although anything could happen in the short run, Ned Davis Research worries that financials have room to fall somewhat more, especially if commodity stocks continue to dominate the market. In terms of their weight in the S&P 500, "financials certainly haven't been cut in half, as you saw with energy and technology" in earlier periods, said Ed Clissold, senior global analyst at the research firm.
Aaron Lucchetti contributed to this article.
Approaching .1 B#ar
V»	er* tt»4n» nnwroth. eleuno	ItrWrtut n
tM tec*-tar* M»iMC«'U<t>hteo4<
D<m Jmm Muir1*1*	Mu M'ftrouuo M MM
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399009740/1384353306970FD9DB1/3?accountid=14026
2/3
5/26/2017
Market's Fall Raises Fears on Banks; Fed Mulls Steps to Ease Investment in Lenders; Parallels to the Tech Bust - ProQuest
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Stock prices
LJ Financial institutions
U Bank stocks
U Dow Jones averages
U Bear markets
Location
U United States--US
Company/organization
LJ Federal Reserve Board
Search
Ebook Central e-books
CFA Institute Investment Perspectives Ser. : Risk Management : Foundation...
2.
Extreme Value Hedging : How Activist Hedge Fund Managers Are Taking on th...
3.
Nutrition in Pediatrics : Basic Science, Clinical Applications
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399009740/1384353306970FD9DB1/3?accountid=14026
3/3