5/26/2017
Banks Lead Dow's 276.74-Point Surge; Financials Roar; Crude Falls Again - ProQuest
More like this +
Banks Lead Dow's 276.74-Point Surge; Financials Roar; Crude Falls Again
McKay, Peter A j>j. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]17 July 2008: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Investors "who have been short financials are . . . going to be covering those positions, not because confidence has increased, but because market dynamics will change, at least temporarily," said Gregory Pai, managing director at Paradigm Asset Management, a White Plains, N.Y., money management firm.
Full Text Translate
Stocks staged their biggest rally in months on a frenzied comeback in financial stocks, a second straight plunge in oil prices and the prospect of new rules to limit bearish bets known as short selling.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 276.74 points, or 2.5%, to 11239.28, its biggest gain since April 1. There were big gains in all its financial components, led by Bank of America, which jumped 22%. J.P. Morgan Chase added 16% ahead of its earnings report due before the start of trading Thursday.
Trading volume was heavy and, in a reversal from recent days, there were more than three times as many advancers as decliners among New York Stock Exchange-listed shares.
Financials took their cue from Wells Fargo, which reported better- than-expected earnings before trading began. Although that represented a 21% decline in quarterly profit, the bank's shares soared nearly 33%.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 30.45 points, or 2.5%, to 1245.36, also the biggest gain since April 1. The broad index was led by its financial sector, which roared 12.5% higher, its best day since the sector index was created in 1989.
"A lot of people have been looking for an opportunity to get into the financial group, and this was it," said S&P strategist Alec Young. "The news from these companies isn't going to be great by any means, but you have to look at it relative to the expectations."
Troubled mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac rose more than 29% each. Regional banks, which are expected to post painful credit-related losses this earnings season, also marched higher. National City jumped 22%.
Short sellers, concerned about regulators' moves to limit their bets against financial stocks, contributed to the big gains. These investors sell borrowed shares, expecting the price will fall before they have to repay the loan. With the prospect of new regulations, they bought shares to cover those bets.
Investors "who have been short financials are . . . going to be covering those positions, not because confidence has increased, but because market dynamics will change, at least temporarily," said Gregory Pai, managing director at Paradigm Asset Management, a White Plains, N.Y., money management firm. "You've got to take that risk off the table."
As share prices rose, other investors also bought, adding to the momentum.
Oil futures, meanwhile, slid 3% in New York following a report of increased stockpiles of crude, bringing oil's two-day decline to 7.3%, or more than $10 a barrel. That helped to offset signs of higher inflation in the bigger-than-expected increase in the consumer-price index for June.
The inflation news hammered Treasury prices, sending yields higher. The slide in oil prices sent energy stocks down. Exxon Mobil fell 1.7% and Chevron was off 3.4%.
Word count: 460
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
Search ProQuest...				;
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
U Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399090693/1384355BAA53AF6AD78/3?accountid=14026
1/1