5/30/2017
Stocks Leap as Citi Sees Profit - ProQuest
More like this +
Stocks Leap as Citi Sees Profit
Lobb, Annelena. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]11 Mar 2009: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Traders say the upward momentum may have been further fueled when short sellers -- who sell borrowed shares with the intention of buying them when prices fall -- were forced to buy stocks to cover their bets against the market. Some say that suspending the uptick rule had the effect of removing a market guardrail -- a decision that these people say affected investor psychology even if it didn't cause market volatility.
Full text Translate
Stocks posted their first major rally of 2009 on Tuesday, giving traders and investors some respite after months of slow-drip declines.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 379.44 points, or 5.8%, to 6926.49, its biggest gain since Nov. 21, when the average jumped 6.5%. In Tokyo, stocks were up 4% in midday trading Wednesday.
But many market participants worried that the advance was more likely a bear-market rally that could be followed by even deeper dips. Six straight months of declines had sent the Dow to its lowest level in 12 years, off more than 50% from its October 2007 peak. Tuesday's rise restored the blue-chip benchmark to levels seen just over a week ago.
"The rally certainly is welcome, and there is no denying the market was oversold," said Terry Morris, senior equity manager at National Penn Investors Trust Co., with about $2 billion under management. "I hope -- I guess as we all do -- that it's not just a one-day event. I'm hoping that cash will start coming into the market."
Investors appeared to take heart from a smattering of news from banks and the government. Traders say the upward momentum may have been further fueled when short sellers -- who sell borrowed shares with the intention of buying them when prices fall -- were forced to buy stocks to cover their bets against the market.
Worries about the solvency of the nation's largest banks subsided for the day after Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Vikram Pandit told employees in a memo Monday night that the company was profitable in January and February. That puts the struggling New York company on track to break a streak of five straight quarterly losses totaling more than $37 billion. Mr. Pandit's note sent Citigroup up 38%. Other financial institutions gained as well, with J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. up 23%.
"I don't know anybody that expected that," said Jeffery Harte, a banking analyst at Sandler O'Neill & Partners LP. "That's good news for Citigroup, but it also implies that the revenue environment is better for a lot of their peers as well."
In a sign of broad-based buying, composite trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange surpassed eight billion shares for the first time since Feb. 27. The S&P 500 Index gained 6.37%, closing at 719.60.
So far in this bear market, stocks have been unable to sustain rallies for long. The four biggest one-day gains in the past year came in October and November -- including an 11% surge on Oct. 13 -- and each time the market eventually resumed its descent. Tuesday's was the fifth-highest percentage gain in the past 12 months.
Tuesday's gain also marked the close of the first 50 calendar days after the inauguration of President Barack Obama. The Dow industrials were down 16.36% over that period, giving President Obama the second-worst mark for the period in more than a century. The industrials fell 20.76% during President Gerald Ford's first 50 calendar days in office.
Investors also appeared to take cheer when regulators in Washington said they may reinstate rules that limit short selling, potentially preventing traders from ganging up against a company's shares.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to propose bringing back the "uptick" rule as soon as next month to put brakes on short selling in falling markets. The rule prevented traders from initiating a short sale unless the price of a stock in its most recent trade was higher than the previous price.
The uptick rule was created following the stock-market crash of 1929 to prevent bearish investors from pressuring shares. After years of economic studies that showed the rule wasn't having an impact on market volatility, the SEC abolished it in 2007.
Many traders and others say the SEC's decision was one factor behind some shares' steep declines over the past two years. Some say that suspending the uptick rule had the effect of removing a market guardrail -- a decision that these people say affected investor psychology even if it didn't cause market volatility. Reinstating the rule could give the market "a huge shot of confidence," says Brian Bartsch, a trader with Cohen Capital Group.
One test of the market's strength will be whether the gains can be extended into Wednesday. The Dow hasn't risen for two consecutive days since Feb. 5 and 6.
"Even though we're not out of bad times yet, we are starting to increase risk," says David Chalupnik, head of equities at First American Funds, with about $72 billion under management. But, he added, "this is one day. I worry, because the previous one-day rallies haven't amounted to anything."
Credit markets staged a more modest recovery from a grim week last week.
Bonds of Citigroup gained ground on the day, as did those of J.P. Morgan and General Electric Co.'s General Electric Capital Corp. unit, according to MarketAxess.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399105503/138447D1332B75D27B/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Stocks Leap as Citi Sees Profit - ProQuest
Prices of junk bonds were up slightly, but traders say the dynamic was similar to the one that helped fuel the rise in the stock market -- investors who had taken short
positions on the bonds were forced to buy them to cover their positions. Investors moved out of Treasury bonds Tuesday, reflecting slightly more comfort with riskier
assets. The 10-year note fell in price, which moved its yield up to 3%, up from 2.9% Monday.
Investors are still worried about the unintended consequences of some of the government's efforts to fix current economic problems.
"There are genuine rational credit fears; there's a rational expectation of worsening credit quality," said Guy LeBas, fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott.
The market for mortgage securities backed by nonconforming mortgage loans was in free-fall as investors await more details on the government's plans to alter individuals' mortgage loans, say traders. Many securities in that market have fallen from 50 cents on the dollar to 30 cents in recent weeks, traders say.
Meantime, on the trading floor of the New York Stock Exchange, traders showed visible signs of relief. Near the closing bell, in contrast with the aspirin-popping of recent months, a couple of traders shot wads of paper into a wastebasket. Even if the rally is short-lived, the general consensus was that the break was welcome after the pounding that the markets have seen in recent months.
"We don't know if the rally is going to stick," said Alan Valdes, a trader with Hilliard Lyons. "But until then, it's a party."
Kara Scannell, Mary Pilon and Liz Rappaport contributed to this article.
Credit: By Annelena Lobb
(c) 2009 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Short sales
U Bear markets
U Dow Jones averages
U Stock exchanges
U Market entry
U Securities markets
People
U Pandit, Vikram
Company/organization
LJ Citigroup Inc
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Bloomberg Financial : Large-Cap Portfolio : Value Investing and the Hidde...
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399105503/138447D1332B75D27B/3?accountid=14026
2/2