5/30/2017
Volatile Week Ends With 249-Point Drop --- For October, Blue-Chip Stocks Were Virtually Unchanged as Investors Weighed the Risks - ProQuest
More like this +
Volatile Week Ends With 249-Point Drop --- For October, Blue-Chip Stocks Were Virtually Unchanged as Investors Weighed the Risks
Browning, E S. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]31 Oct 2009: B.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Consumer spending accounts for 70% of economic activity, and its continuing weakness, despite months of government aid, makes investors worry what will support stocks once the aid wanes.
Full text Translate
After seeming to dissipate on Thursday, investors' economic worries came roaring back, amid concerns that the economy may not be strong enough to support a significant new leg up for stocks.
The result was another pullback from risky investments on Friday. Stocks, oil and other industrial commodities fell. Investments considered havens, such as the dollar and Treasury bonds, rose in value, sending Treasury yields lower.
The catalyst for the moves was the government's report that consumer spending sank in September as the "cash for clunkers" program ran out, together with news that the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer-confidence index fell in October. Consumer spending accounts for 70% of economic activity, and its continuing weakness, despite months of government aid, makes investors worry what will support stocks once the aid wanes.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 249.85 points, or 2.51%, to 9712.73, leaving it virtually unchanged for the month of October and down 2.6% for the week. It was the biggest one-day percentage decline since early July.
More worrisome for some investors, it was the Dow's sixth triple-digit move in seven sessions, reflecting the market's return to a degree of up-and-down volatility it hadn't seen since March.
Many investors have begun worrying that consumer weakness will continue to weigh on the economy and on stocks until the employment picture improves. October employment data are due out next week.
"A lot of what is going on is positive, but until the economy begins to see some jobs, which we don't think happens until the first quarter, the stock market will have trouble pushing forward," said Jim Dunigan, chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.
Investors seemed to shrug off such concerns on Thursday, following a stronger-than-expected report on third-quarter economic growth, which suggested that the recession may be over. The Dow rose 199.89 points. But the worries came right back on Friday.
Friday's decline left the Dow down 3.8% from its recent high on Oct. 19, and down 31% from its record close in October 2007. One problem facing stocks is that earnings season, during which companies release quarterly performance reports, is nearly over, and stocks no longer have profit news to boost them.
Contributing to the concerns this time was a perception that companies continue to realize profits from cost-cutting, rather than sales expansion, suggesting that the economic recovery remains fragile.
Credit: By E.S. Browning
Volatility Meter
The CBOE volatility Index, or VIX, is a measure of market volatility. Low numbers indicate lower volatility, and vice versa.
fr....................
2008 '09
Source: Thomson Reuters via WSJ Market Data Group
(c) 2009 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399091535/13844A88A55130F3B72/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Volatile Week Ends With 249-Point Drop --- For October, Blue-Chip Stocks Were Virtually Unchanged as Investors Weighed the Risks - ProQuest
Search ProQuest...
/,
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Treasury bonds
U Stocks
U Recessions
U Investors
U Investments
LJ Government aid
LJ Economic recovery
LJ Economic growth
U Dow Jones averages
U Daily markets (wsj)
Location
U United States--US
Search
Ebook Central e-books
1.	Annual Register, World Events 2007., Volume 249
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399091535/13844A88A55130F3B72/3?accountid=14026
2/2