5/30/2017
Markets Fall on Growth Fears --- After Lofty Gains, Stocks, Commodities Drop Amid Worries Over Global Contraction - ProQuest
More like this + Markets Fall on Growth Fears --- After Lofty Gains, Stocks, Commodities Drop Amid Worries Over Global Contraction
Browning, E S. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]23 June 2009: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
"The world economy is really running on one engine right now and that is China," said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at Boston brokerage firm LPL Financial. Beyond doubts about global growth and the concerns that the gains have been overdone, analysts have begun to worry about signs that investor enthusiasm is running its course.
Full text Translate
After three months of enthusiasm, investors are showing doubts about the prospects for global growth.
Stocks and industrial commodities slid in both Europe and the U.S. on Monday, amid growing concerns that prices had leaped beyond realistic expectations for the world economy.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 200.72 points, or 2.35%, to 8339.01, for a total decline of 5% in the past six trading sessions. Monday's performance represents the Dow's sharpest point and percentage drop since April 20 and its lowest close in almost a month. In early trading Tuesday, Tokyo stocks were down 2.7%.
In the three months through June 12, the Dow industrials had soared 34%.
Investments whose ties to the global economy had made them the strongest recent gainers are now taking a hit. These include copper, oil, commodity-related companies, banking shares and some developing-country stock markets. Copper futures, which had surged 95% since late December, fell 5% Monday in New York. Oil futures, which had doubled since mid-December, fell almost 4%. Gasoline futures declined more than 3%. Russia's benchmark stock index fell 5% and Brazil's 3.7%. The benchmark index in Canada, another significant commodity producer, fell 4.4%.
Many investors remain hopeful for growth in some of the most dynamic developing countries, including China, but they question whether that will be enough in a global economy still dominated by the U.S. and Europe.
"The world economy is really running on one engine right now and that is China," said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at Boston brokerage firm LPL Financial. "People are saying maybe China got ahead of itself in buying copper and other commodities, and maybe it won't be using them as fast as expected."
The concerns were spurred Monday by a World Bank report warning that the global economy could contract at a 2.9% rate this year, worse than the 1.7% contraction the organization had forecast earlier.
Aluminum-maker Alcoa was off 8.9% and U.S. Steel fell 9%. Worries about global growth prospects bled into financial stocks, which also have been up heavily. Bank of America and Keycorp each declined more than 9%, and J.P. Morgan fell 6%.
Some of the buying since early March was been based on a conclusion by many investors that government intervention had forestalled the threat of a doomsday scenario, such as another Great Depression. That led many money managers and some individuals to take some money out of cash reserves and Treasury bonds, and put it into stocks, commodities and corporate bonds.
When the rally began in March, expectations were so low that stocks rose merely on news that indicators such as manufacturing activity or the service economy were shrinking less than had been feared. Investors didn't require signs of actual growth.
Many stocks were trading at their lowest levels in more than a decade, and when investors decided that these companies wouldn't fail, their stocks looked cheap.
At its low, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was trading at around 10 times analysts' forecasts for their profits over the coming year, or well below the average level of 14 or 15 over the past 30 years. But after rising 40% in three months, the S&P was at 14 times forecast earnings, and no longer looked like such a bargain.
Looking at the paper gains over such a short period, a growing number of investors decided to take some money off the table. The declines began in earnest on June 15. Some analysts began to fear that, until signs of growth become clearer, investors would be reluctant to push price-to-earnings ratios much higher.
"The rebound got ahead of the fundamentals, so I'm not surprised to see some of the air come out of this," said Jim Dunigan, chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management, the investment advisory unit of PNC Bank.
In addition to the concerns about global growth, investors also appear to be nervous about what Federal Reserve officials will say Wednesday, after a two-day meeting, about their willingness to continue pumping money into the economy. The fear is that it still could be months before signs of real economic recovery start appearing. In that environment, investors also are uncertain about second-quarter corporate-profit reports, due out in mid-July.
While some long-term investors were taking advantage of the pullbacks to increase their stock holdings, most were holding back, allowing stocks to continue falling.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399047984/138449BDAB91C3270E5/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Markets Fall on Growth Fears --- After Lofty Gains, Stocks, Commodities Drop Amid Worries Over Global Contraction - ProQuest
Beyond doubts about global growth and the concerns that the gains have been overdone, analysts have begun to worry about signs that investor enthusiasm is running its course.
When stocks are entering a new bull market, trading volume normally is strong and gains are spread among a broad group of stocks. But since April, average daily trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange has been trending downward. It went from a record 7.21 billion shares in March to just 5.14 billion in the first part of June, which is below the average for the year.
In addition, the number of stocks joining in the gains has begun to shrink.
The S&P 500 fell 3.06% to 893.04. It moved into negative territory for 2009, down 1% for the year so far. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 3.35% to 1766.19. It still is up 12% for 2009 because its many technology stocks have been among market leaders this year.
Credit: By E.S. Browning
(c) 2009 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Securities analysis
U Securities markets
Location
U United States--US
LJ Europe
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Annual World Bank Conference on Development Economics : Annual World Bank...
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399047984/138449BDAB91C3270E5/3?accountid=14026
2/2