5/30/2017 Pro-Growth Collapse Pounds Markets; Unwinding of Risky, Highly Leveraged Investments Sends Dow Down 376.36; Oil, Dollar Join Plunge - ProQuest
More like this +
Pro-Growth Collapse Pounds Markets; Unwinding of Risky, Highly Leveraged Investments Sends Dow Down 376.36; Oil, Dollar Join Plunge
Pulliam, Susan; Gongloff, Mark. Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]21 May 2010: n/a.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Many of the big market moves could be explained by investors selling out of the trade. Besides the declining stock market, 10-year Treasurys gained 26/32 points, pushing their yield to 3.264%, the lowest since November.
Full Text Translate
The dramatic unwinding of a highly leveraged trading strategy embraced by hedge funds contributed to the global market selloff on Thursday.
The strategy, known as the pro-growth trade, was based on a view that global economies would recover strongly and included bets that commodities, high-yielding currencies and stocks would keep rising, while safer investments such as Treasurys would fall.
The Greek debt crisis and efforts by governments in Asia and Australia to rein in growth have undone the trade in recent weeks and the big moves in the currencies and commodities on Thursday were likely driven by investors selling their holdings to limit their losses.
The stock market reacted to the moves in other markets with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 376.36 points, or 3.6%, to 10068.01, its worst day since March 2009, just before it hit a 12-year low. The market, which had its lowest close since Feb. 10, is down just over 10% from its recent peak in late April, marking its first correction since the powerful bull market began last March.
"The markets are telling you the growth trade is over," says Michael Novogratz, who oversees macro hedge funds at Fortress Investment Group. In recent days, he says, Fortress has unwound many of its positions that reflected its "pro-growth" mindset, including investments in Asian currencies.
The pro-growth trade began to gain popularity about a year ago, when the banking crisis was thought to have passed. Investors, in particular big macro hedge funds that make bets based on their broad economic views, grew convinced that global growth led by China, India and Korea would pick up steam. When the trade worked, other funds jumped on the bandwagon.
Among the major hedge funds thought to have been big players in at least one or more of the pro-growth bets include Paulson & Co., Moore Capital Management and Fortress. Wall Street, in particular Goldman Sachs, provided investment ideas to hedge funds to play the trade. Spokesmen for Paulson and Moore declined to comment.
Among the most popular pieces of the "pro-growth" trade were: bullish bets on the U.S. stock market, the Australian and Canadian dollars and the Brazilian real. Investors bet against U.S. Treasurys and the Japanese yen, which are considered safe havens that rise when investors are worried about growth.
Some investors bought commodities that they thought would be linked to a surge in manufacturing, such as copper. Many investors put on bearish bets on the euro as a hedge against a bet on global growth.
"There was a widespread view among hedge funds that the place to be was long global growth," says David Kostin, who follows hedge funds for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
With the markets going against them and losses mounting, hedge funds bailed out of their holdings on Thursday, helping to explain the sharp slide in U.S. stocks, crude oil, copper, the Australian dollar and other currencies, traders and analysts say.
For investors who got in early enough, the pro growth trades may have yielded big profits. Some say that many hedge funds selling today are taking profits rather than losses.
"These guys are not getting squeezed," said Todd Colvin, a vice president at brokerage firm MF Global in Chicago. "They're just getting out and maybe reassessing where the next move is coming from," giving markets less of a panicky feel than during the 2008-09 meltdown.
Many of the big market moves could be explained by investors selling out of the trade. Besides the declining stock market, 10-year Treasurys gained 26/32 points, pushing their yield to 3.264%, the lowest since November. Copper prices fell 0.49% and are down 12% this month while oil fell to its lowest level since September 2009.
The moves in the currency markets were the most dramatic. The euro rose to $1.2495, a 1% gain, while the Australian and Canadian dollars fell 2.9% and 2.2% respectively against the U.S. dollar. The Brazilian real fell 2.6% and the yen rose 2%
The pro-growth trade has been called into question in recent weeks following a growing list of "anti-growth" developments including attempts by China to tap the brakes on its booming growth, mounting sovereign-debt worries, concerns about the U.S. consumer as some measures of retail sales have faltered, disappointing jobless claims, looming financial reform and a short-selling ban in Germany.
"This feels like the first clean blow-up of the euro carry trade," said Alan Ruskin, global head of currency strategy for RBS Securities in Stamford, Conn. "That gold has gone
down today is a telling comment on how much this has been a story of investors liquidating even winning trades."
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/237994672/1 3844AF5D7B4262E03E/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017 Pro-Growth Collapse Pounds Markets; Unwinding of Risky, Highly Leveraged Investments Sends Dow Down 376.36; Oil, Dollar Join Plunge - ProQuest
Low interest rates were the fuel that drove the trade. With fistfuls of cash borrowed at low rates in euro, yen and dollars, investors bought stocks, commodities, U.S. corporate bonds and high-yield bonds. Those investments rose nearly without stopping, gaining additional strength in the middle of 2009 as evidence of an economic recovery accumulated.
Another consequence of the pro-growth trade was that currencies of economies seen as benefiting from growth and booming commodity prices gained, while currencies of countries that were bankrolling the party with low interest rates suffered.
Cracks first started appearing in these trades last November, when worries about sovereign-debt problems in Greece started to grow.
Sovereign-debt worries are a particularly keen threat to the pro-growth trade, given its reliance on robust government support for financial markets, in the absence thus far of a broad-based economic revival.
As long as the global economy doesn't sink into another recession, still-easy money could keep risky assets from falling too far. At the same time, that means risky assets are also vulnerable to weaker-than-expected U.S. economic data, such as the jump in weekly jobless claims and the decline in leading economic indicators reported on Thursday. Weaker economic and inflation readings lately have also cast doubt on the inflation expectations that partly part justified the pro-growth trades.
Write to Susan Pulliam at susan.pulliam@wsj.com and Mark Gongloff at mark.gongloff@wsj.com
Credit: By Susan Pulliam And Mark Gongloff
Word count: 1002
(c) 2010 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ American dollar
LJ Dow Jones averages
U Currencies
U Investments
U Treasuries
U Stock exchanges
Search
Ebook Central e-books
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/237994672/1 3844AF5D7B4262E03E/3?accountid=14026
2/2