6/28/2017
Global Markets Shudder --- Doubts About U.S. Economy and a Debt Crunch in Europe Jolt Hopes for a Recovery - ProQuest
1Back to results	More like this +
Global Markets Shudder --- Doubts About U.S. Economy and a Debt Crunch in Europe Jolt Hopes for a Recovery
Blackstone, Brian; Lauricella, Tom; Shah, Neil. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Feb 2010: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate Hide highlighting
Commodities, too, took a hit, partly on expectations that the troubles in the European bond market will create a drag on the global economic recovery.
Full Text Translate
Concerns are growing that the world hasn't seen the last of the economic crisis.
Jitters about the U.S. economy and signs that Greece's debt woes are spreading across Europe roiled markets on Thursday, driving the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly below the 10000 mark.
U.S. stock investors, waking up to a turbulent European trading session, were further unnerved by an unexpected rise in the latest report on initial claims for jobless benefits. Ahead of a key January employment report due out Friday, the claims numbers revived on-again, off-again concerns about the strength of the U.S. economic recovery.
The resulting selloff took the Dow below the psychologically important 10000 level in the final moments of trading. It managed to finish at 10002.18, but nevertheless had a 2.6% decline, led by big drops in financial stocks . The 268.37-point fall was its biggest one-day loss since last April.
Asian markets, which had eased modestly Thursday, opened sharply lower on Friday, underscoring the global impact of the market tremors.
Commodities, too, took a hit, partly on expectations that the troubles in the European bond market will create a drag on the global economic recovery. Crude oil fell nearly 5% and even gold prices -- which usually rise in times of crisis -- fell 4.4% in response to a stronger dollar and as investors pulled back from more volatile investments. U.S. Treasury prices rose sharply as investors sought out the bonds' relative safety.
European stocks and bonds also swooned, with markets in the U.K., Germany and France all losing more than 2%.
Behind the turmoil are worries that a collection of European countries including Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain, known derisively as PIGS, won't be able to finance budget deficits that have ballooned to around 10% of gross domestic product. That has sparked fears that Europe's decade-old monetary union could unravel.
This sentiment spilled over into markets on Thursday. Although the European Commission had signed off on Greece's budget plans the day before, confidence was shaken at the same time by a stumble in a Portuguese bond sale and Spain's raising of its budget-deficit forecasts.
The cost of insuring against the default of sovereign debt from Greece, Portugal and Spain soared to new highs, and the euro slid to an eight-month low against the dollar and lost 3% of its value against the Japanese yen.
Many are beginning to worry that Greece could be the next "subprime" -- referring to a debt situation that appears initially to be contained but that quickly spreads. It also focuses attention on the massive amounts of debt racked up by governments around the globe, including the U.S.
"Greece is simply an illustration of a much broader issue," says Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at giant bond manager Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, Calif. Governments around the world borrowed heavily to counter the massive problems in the banking system brought on by the collapse of real-estate markets in many countries. "Now we're living through the consequences," says Mr. El-Erian.
"I was laid off from a cafeteria 10 days ago," says Nikos Bouzitsepis, 20 years old, a photography student in Athens. "It was a new shop that never got off the ground because of the crisis."
While expectations are that countries like Greece will ultimately not default and instead be bailed out by Germany and other healthier economies in the European Union, the decline in the euro reflects that investors are electing to take what they see as the less risky route. They pulled money out of Europe and parked it in the relative safety of the dollar, yen and short-term government debt in Japan and the U.S., putting downward pressure on the euro.
That came to the fore on Thursday as bond markets in places like Belgium and Austria also came under pressure, traders say. In addition, European banks, which are major holders of government debt, saw their share prices take big hits.
"We've definitely entered the stage where the European debt crisis is becoming systemic," says Barry Knapp, equity market strategist at Barclays Capital in New York.
Officials at the U.S. Treasury Department and Federal Reserve have been watching developments in Greece closely, and have seen the problems largely as a regional issue that European governments can handle. If markets continue to sink globally, that could shift the thinking. The topic is likely to come up at a meeting of Group of Seven finance ministers that starts Friday in Iqaluit, Canada.
For years, Greece, Spain and others were among the fastest growing economies in the euro zone, with low interest rates fueling a boom in construction and consumer
spending. Yet the financial crisis has exposed the countries' chronic lack of fiscal discipline and longstanding structural deficiencies.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399093011/E4B50CCDB2FC42D4PQ/6?accountid=12861
1/2
6/28/2017
Global Markets Shudder --- Doubts About U.S. Economy and a Debt Crunch in Europe Jolt Hopes for a Recovery - ProQuest
In the past, the countries could respond to such crises by devaluing their currencies -- an option not on the table for members of the 16-member euro zone.
The austerity measures that the governments are being forced to pursue will likely only worsen their already high unemployment and thwart economic growth in the medium term.
Moreover, as the problem spreads, it becomes that much more difficult to manage. Spain, for example, is the euro zone's fourth-largest economy and nearly twice as big as Greece, Portugal and Ireland combined. That likely makes it simply too big to undertake the kind of bailout that Germany and other euro-zone countries have privately been contemplating for Greece.
In an effort to shore up confidence in the euro zone's ability to weather the crisis, European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet on Thursday delivered an impassioned defense of the common currency.
Mr. Trichet, in an uncharacteristically feisty appearance at the ECB's monthly news conference, stressed that despite the fiscal woes in some member states, the average budget deficit for the euro zone as a whole, at 6% of gross domestic product, is well below the double-digit gaps in the U.S. and Japan. "It is not necessarily very well known the kind of solidity" that the euro zone has, Mr. Trichet said.
Thursday's frenzy was whipped up in part by big moves in the credit-default swap markets, where traders can take big bets on the likelihood of a country defaulting. >
As credit-default swaps on debt of Greece and Portugal soared, indicating more worries about a default, investors became more alarmed. That often sets off a cycle of more CDS buying. Prices of government bonds issued by Spain and Portugal sank along with their stock markets, while the cost to insure these bonds against default using credit-default swaps soared.
In a worrisome sign, concerns about the fiscal woes of European governments are starting to infect corners of the credit markets that European banks and companies rely on to raise money.
Prices of credit-default swaps tied to European companies with stronger credit ratings, including banks, also rose on Thursday, with the cost of insuring the debt of Spanish and Portuguese banks jumping in particular.
Even banks like the U.K.'s Barclays PLC and Germany's Deutsche Bank AG saw their debt-default insurance costs rise.
Sebastian Moffett in Athens contributed to this article.
Credit: Brian Blackstone; Tom Lauricella; Neil Shah
Word count: 1189
(c) 2010 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ International finance
LJ Securities markets
LJ Global economy
Location
U United States--US
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library ***
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399093011/E4B50CCDB2FC42D4PQ/6?accountid=12861
2/2