5/30/2017
Economy Sinks Markets; Dow Falls 3.7% on Weak Home Sales, Manufacturing and Employment Data - ProQuest
More like this +
Economy Sinks Markets; Dow Falls 3.7% on Weak Home Sales, Manufacturing and Employment Data
Timiraos, Nick; Dougherty, Conor. Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Aug 2011: n/a.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The U.S. economy is showing new signs of fatigue, depressing financial markets, discouraging consumers and unsettling businesses. About the only hopeful sign on Thursday was a 0.5% increase in the Conference Board's index of 10 leading economic indicators designed to predict the economy's direction, the third rise in as many months.
Full Text Translate
The U.S. economy is showing new signs of fatigue, depressing financial markets, discouraging consumers and unsettling businesses.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 419.63 points, or 3.7%, Thursday, and is down 9.5% for August amid soaring trading volume and some of the worst volatility on record. Angst about the health of the U.S. and European economies, and the stability of European banks, sent investors rushing to the safety of U.S. Treasurys. Yields on the 10-year note briefly dropped below 2% for the first time in at least 50 years. Gold jumped to a new record. Asian shares fell sharply in early trading Friday, with benchmark indexes in Japan down 1.8%, Australia down 2.7% and South Korea down 4.7%.
The latest batch of economic data offered little reason for optimism. Sales of previously owned homes fell 3.5% in July from June, the National Association of Realtors reported, another sign that the hoped-for housing recovery isn't materializing. The data came as a surprise because of earlier reports of an increase in May and June in the number of contracts signed to buy homes. That suggests some buyers are backing out of deals.
A normally overlooked measure, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank's survey of local manufacturers, drew attention as it plunged into territory usually seen only in recessions. Earlier in the week, a similar New York Fed survey suggested a downturn in manufacturing in New York state.
New claims for unemployment benefits rose by 9,000 to a seasonally adjusted 408,000, a bit above the 400,000 mark that an economists' rule of thumb indicates enough jobs are being created to bring down unemployment, now at 9.1%.
The Labor Department said that, adjusted for its latest inflation readings, average weekly wages in July for those Americans who do have jobs were 1.3% lower than their recent peak in October 2010.
About the only hopeful sign on Thursday was a 0.5% increase in the Conference Board's index of 10 leading economic indicators designed to predict the economy's direction, the third rise in as many months. But the keepers of that metric saw little encouraging there. "The economy is slow, with little momentum, and shows no indication of acceleration," said Ken Goldstein, an economist at the nonprofit business-research group.
The U.S. economy grew sluggishly in the first half of the year, weighed down by a rise in oil prices and the disruption of production following the Japanese earthquake. Hopes for a more buoyant second half have all but evaporated.
"It's clear that not all of the weakness was due to these one-time factors--and, in light of this, I have revised down my expectations for the pace of the recovery going
forward," the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, William Dudley, said Thursday.
There is no sure-fire way to tell whether the U.S. economy already has lapsed into renewed recession or whether it will soon.
"If it's not a recession, it sure feels like one. And if it feels like one, it doesn't matter if you can prove it with statistics or not," said John Hailer, president of Natixis Global Asset Management in the U.S. and Asia. "We have some real tough problems in front of us, and we really need some leadership in corporate America and Washington...There's a lot of nervousness in the market."
Four dozen economic forecasters surveyed by The Wall Street Journal earlier in August said there was only a 13% chance that a recession already has begun. But they saw rising risks that one is looming. On average, they put the odds of recession in the next year at 29%, up from 17% only a month earlier; 10 of them put the odds at 40% or higher.
"We've said there is a 35% chance of recession, but if the stock-market weakness persists, we're going to keep on raising those odds," Ethan Harris, economist at Bank of American Merrill Lynch, said Thursday.
An estimate of monthly gross domestic product compiled by Macroeconomic Advisers of St. Louis indicates that GDP, the value of all goods and services produced, declined in January and February, rose in the following two months, and then fell again in May and June. By the forecasting firm's measure, U.S. GDP was lower in June than it was in December 2010.
Despite spreading distress about the economy, some recent government indicators do suggest early-summer signs of life. The Fed said Tuesday that its index of
manufacturing production rose 0.6% in July, more than in any month since March, fueled by an upturn in auto manufacturing. And although surveys show consumer
confidence sinking, the Commerce Department's broad measure of retail sales rose more in July than in the previous three months.
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/884236998/138490F8A841003B32C/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Economy Sinks Markets; Dow Falls 3.7% on Weak Home Sales, Manufacturing and Employment Data - ProQuest
Worries about the economy threaten to further set back the fragile housing market. Anthony Lamacchia, a real-estate agent in Waltham, Mass., said two buyers backed out of tentative deals in the past two weeks. "People called and said, 'We're worried about our jobs. We don't want to buy a house anymore,'" he said.
In Las Vegas, Lisa and Robbie Swift signed a contract to buy a house late last year. But then they learned that "The Lion King"--where she works with child actors and he plays several roles including Ed the Hyena and Timon--would be shutting down in December. "In a panic state, we called our real estate agent," said Ms. Swift. "We'd all waited three months for this to go through. It was a short sale. But we just decided to get out of it."
The couple will be touring with the musical nationally, but Ms. Swift said she is "still sad that we're renting and that we don't have our own investment."
Home sales don't appear to be benefiting from mortgage rates that have fallen to their lowest levels in at least half a century. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages averaged 4.15% for the week ended Thursday, according to a Freddie Mac survey. Yet applications for home-purchase mortgages were down 9.1% last week from the previous week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Andrew Hornback, 36, and his wife were preparing to buy their first house last fall in Queens, N.Y., when he lost his job as an information-technology professional. "Buying a house was right on the horizon," he said. The money they were "squirreling away" for a down payment is "getting chipped away at because you need things like health insurance," he added. The couple hopes to buy one day, but has delayed their plans indefinitely.
"Buyer confidence may be an all-time low," said Anthony Sanders, a real estate finance professor at George Mason University. "The economy is scaring the living daylights out of most potential homebuyers."
Contributing to the gloomy outlook for the economy is a pullback in federal, state and local government spending. Standard & Poor's, the rating firm, said Thursday that the deficit-reduction deal it previously pronounced as inadequate "could undermine the already fragile economic recovery."
Architects of President Barack Obama's economic stimulus efforts had hoped that as government spending waned, the private sector would pick up the slack. That isn't happening and his standing in polls is suffering as a result. A Gallup poll released Wednesday found only 26% of Americans approve of Mr. Obama's handling of the economy, down 11 points since mid-May and by far the lowest of his presidency.
Uncertainty about the vigor of the economy has companies scaling back expectations, even as profits are generally strong.
With fuel costs still high--though oil prices are slumping as worries about the global economic spread--Delta Air Lines Inc. plans to reduce its flight capacity by 4% to 5% by year-end. The company has been able to pass along only some higher costs to consumers, and profits are being squeezed. "We're doing this because of fuel costs," says Eric Torbenson, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based airline. At the end of July, Delta said about 2,000 employees had accepted buyouts, but the ripple effects continue: Delta partner SkyWest Airlines, based in St. George, Utah, this month laid off about 170 gate and ground crew workers at Salt Lake City International Airport because of cutbacks in Delta Connection flights.
For many, though, it's all about jobs. Will Ball, 35, was laid off this summer from an $80,000-a-year job as a quality-assurance engineer at a Portland, Ore., software company. Mr. Ball, who is married and has a four-month-old son, has had a half-dozen interviews and is confident he'll get a job soon. But the search is taking longer than he expected. "It's been productive but there are a lot of people out there looking for jobs-- it's very competitive," he said. Although his wife is still employed, they're delaying major purchases. Plans to replace their 10-year-old Volkswagen for something roomier have been put on hold.
Justin Lahart,
S.	Mitra Kalita
and E.S. Browning
contributed to this article.
Write to Nick Timiraos at nick.timiraos@wsj.com and Conor Dougherty at conor.dougherty@wsj.com
Credit: By Nick Timiraos And Conor Dougherty
Word count: 1490
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
Search ProQuest...				;
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/884236998/138490F8A841003B32C/3?accountid=14026
2/2