5/30/2017
Banker's Exit Rattles Markets --- In Europe, Top ECB Economist Resigns, Seen as Policy Protest; Dow Industrials Fall 303.68 Points - ProQuest
More like this + Banker's Exit Rattles Markets --- In Europe, Top ECB Economist Resigns, Seen as Policy Protest; Dow Industrials Fall 303.68 Points Blackstone, Brian. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Sep 2011: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The surprise exit of Mr. Stark -- the second senior German official to depart the ECB over ideological differences in recent months -- jolted markets in Europe and the U.S., as concerns over the stability of the central bank's senior leadership added to fears about Greece and Europe's banks. Mr. Stark, a former top Bundesbank official and one of the ECB's most outspoken anti-inflation "hawks," opposed the ECB's decision last month to reactivate its government bond purchase program, as did the head of Germany's central bank, Jens Weidmann.
Full Text Translate
FRANKFURT -- Germany's top representative on the European Central Bank resigned in an apparent protest Friday, dealing a severe blow to the steward of Europe's common currency amid the Continent's worsening debt crisis.
The ECB said Juergen Stark, its chief economist, was resigning for "personal" reasons with nearly three years remaining in his term. But people familiar with the matter said his decision was driven by frustration over the bank's expanding role in backstopping the region's finances.
Mr. Stark has been the ECB's most skeptical voice on policies to jump-start the euro-zone economy by propping up countries such as Greece, Portugal and Italy using asset purchases or by keeping interest rates low.
The surprise exit of Mr. Stark -- the second senior German official to depart the ECB over ideological differences in recent months -- jolted markets in Europe and the U.S., as concerns over the stability of the central bank's senior leadership added to fears about Greece and Europe's banks. The euro suffered its biggest one-day drop in two months, finishing at $1.3657, its lowest finish since February.
In Germany, investors erased a small afternoon gain to finish down 4%, the lowest finish for the DAX index since July 2009. In Milan, the FTSE MIB index plunged 4.9%, also a two-year low. In the U.S., where markets opened at around the time the news was made public, the Dow Jones Industrial Average started the session sharply lower and ended the day down 303.68 points, or 2.69%, its biggest one-day drop in three weeks.
"At the very least, this adds to the uncertainty and to the sense of division among European policymakers," JPMorgan Chase economist Greg Fuzesi wrote in a research note.
Austrian central bank governor Ewald Nowotny said Mr. Stark's departure wouldn't affect ECB decision-making. "The basic orientation of the ECB, which is clearly set in the EU treaty, remains untouched by the resignation of Juergen Stark," Mr. Nowotny said in a statement.
The upheaval in ECB's ranks comes at a sensitive time in Europe's battle to bring the nearly two-year-old debt crisis on its periphery under control. Greece, the first country to seek a bailout, is once again teetering on the brink of insolvency. Investors are increasingly worried about the prospects of larger countries such as Italy and Spain.
The ECB has been at the forefront of Europe's efforts to quell such fears. In May 2010, it started buying government bonds of Greece and other troubled euro-zone countries in a bid to keep rising borrowing costs from crippling those economies. It expanded the program last month to include Italy and Spain, and since then has bought more than 50 billion euros ($69 billion) in government bonds.
But the discord within the bank's governing council is likely to raise new doubts over Europe's ability to bring the debt crisis under control.
Critics of the ECB's market interventions, including Mr. Stark, believe it is up to euro-zone governments, not the ECB, to rescue troubled states. By intervening so forcefully, the ECB has assumed a political role that will ultimately undermine its claim that it isn't subject to political influence.
ECB officials have taken pains in recent weeks to counter growing criticism that the bank is overstepping its charter and assuming untold financial risk with its actions. Such worries are strongest in Germany, where the country's own central bank, the Bundesbank, is firmly rooted on the principle of independence from politics. Many Germans believe that tradition is at the core of their country's own economic success and worry that it is now being undermined.
"Stark is the second German central banker to leave the ship because he sees that the German stability culture can't be upheld in Europe," says Thorsten Polleit, economist at Barclays Capital in Frankfurt. "There's a clear potential now that the German public will become increasingly disenchanted with the euro project."
That disenchantment is already being expressed by leading politicians. German President Christian Wulff, whose position is largely ceremonial, has called the ECB's bond purchases "politically and legally questionable." The head of German's center-left SPD party, Sigmar Gabriel, has also denounced the purchases.
There are worries within Germany that vulnerable Southern European countries will soon have a stranglehold on ECB decision-making. That impression could further undermine Germans' confidence in the euro at a time when their country is being asked to foot much of the bill to bail out flagging members.
Mr. Stark, a former top Bundesbank official and one of the ECB's most outspoken anti-inflation "hawks," opposed the ECB's decision last month to reactivate its government
bond purchase program, as did the head of Germany's central bank, Jens Weidmann.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/888234865/138492AC83279DB2DC2/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Banker's Exit Rattles Markets --- In Europe, Top ECB Economist Resigns, Seen as Policy Protest; Dow Industrials Fall 303.68 Points - ProQuest
In an op-ed for the German business daily Handelsblatt, released late Friday, Mr. Stark wrote that government efforts to save the euro zone have fallen short. He called for a "far-reaching reform of the mechanism for decisions and sanctions."
As head of the economics division at the ECB's Frankfurt-based executive board, Mr. Stark has held considerable sway over the economic analysis behind the ECB's interest-rate decisions. He will leave once a successor is appointed, which will be by the end of the year, according to bank protocol
His resignation comes at a dicey time for the ECB.
The eight-year term of ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet's ends at the end of October. He will be succeeded by Mario Draghi, who currently heads the Bank of Italy. Three representatives from Southern Europe already sit on the six-member, Frankfurt-based executive board, including vice president Vitor Constancio, from Portugal. Although Germany accounts for 30% of the euro-zone economy, its officials cast the same single vote on policy as those from smaller countries.
"In a situation where a few stable economies have to bear a lot of risk on behalf of smaller, less stable countries, in such a situation Germans might start to think this is a difficult way to structure the ECB," said Kai Carstensen, economist at think tank Ifo Institute in Munich.
German finance minister Wolfgang Schauble told German state television Friday that Berlin will press for a German to replace Mr. Stark. No candidate has been named, but one possibility is deputy finance minister Jorg Asmussen, who has negotiated many of the euro crisis plans for Germany.
Mr. Stark's ECB resignation follows that of former Bundesbank President Axel Weber, who resigned in April. Mr. Weber, who had been seen as the frontrunner to succeed Mr. Trichet, later cited his opposition to the ECB's bond purchases as a factor in his decision to not seek the presidency.
Unlike Mr. Weber, who repeatedly condemned the purchases when he was at the Bundesbank, Mr. Stark refrained from publicly criticizing the move.
Jonathan Cheng in New York contributed to this article.
Credit: By Brian Blackstone
Word count: 1123
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Central banks
LJ Dow Jones averages
U Resignations
People
U Stark, Jurgen
Company/organization
U European Central Bank
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/888234865/138492AC83279DB2DC2/3?accountid=14026
2/2