6/28/2017
Fed Twist Prompts Markets to Turn - ProQuest
1Back to results
Fed Twist Prompts Markets to Turn
Phillips, Matt f2; Zeng, Minf^; Yoon, Al. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Sep 2011: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
More like this +
Hide highlighting
The Federal Reserve pulled fresh levers in the bond markets but failed to dispel investors' skepticism about its ability to kick-start the economy. Some market participants wondered whether the Fed's latest move -- coming after two large rounds of bond buying -- would have any meaningful impact on economic growth, employment, or consumer demand for new mortgages.
Full text Translate
The Federal Reserve pulled fresh levers in the bond markets but failed to dispel investors' skepticism about its ability to kick-start the economy.
The Fed's new steps include boosting the share of longer-term Treasurys it owns by $400 billion by June 2012, dubbed "Operation Twist." The central bank also said it would stop allowing its portfolio of mortgage-backed securities to shrink as loans are paid off. Instead, it will reinvest the proceeds of maturing or repaid loans in new mortgage-backed securities.
Both moves are designed, in part, to bolster the mortgage market by pushing up prices and driving down rates.
Longer-term Treasury prices rose sharply, sending the yield on the 10-year note to a record low of 1.871%. The yield on the 30-year note plunged to below 3% intraday for the first time since January 2009. The Fed said it will sell shorter-term debt, sending prices on some of those bonds lower, raising their yields.
Prices in the $5 trillion market for agency mortgage-backed securities rallied.
Stocks tumbled as investors focused on the Fed's gloomy prognosis for the economy. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 283.82 points, or 2.5%, to 11124.84, with the bulk of the losses coming in the final hour of trading. The S&P 500-stock index lost 2.9%.
The losses continued in early Asia trading Thursday, with Japan falling 1.5%, Australia losing 2.3%, South Korea sliding 2.6% and New Zealand dipping 0.2%.
On Wednesday, U.S. bank stocks were particularly weak, in part because they would be especially hurt by the Fed's efforts. Banks profit when short-term rates are low and long-term yields are high. But the Fed's move would do just the opposite.
The dollar rallied against the euro and U.K. pound.
Some market participants wondered whether the Fed's latest move -- coming after two large rounds of bond buying -- would have any meaningful impact on economic growth, employment, or consumer demand for new mortgages.
In particular, they were skeptical about whether such measures would set off a wave of mortgage refinancing. In the wake of the housing boom and bust, many homeowners are "underwater" -- meaning they owe more on their property than it is worth -- making it tough to refinance.
Refinancing is seen as a stimulant for the economy because it lowers out-of-pocket costs for borrowers, freeing up more cash to be spent on goods and services.
"Many of the problems with housing are not interest-rate related, so these moves may not have the desired impact without additional action being taken on the loan side," said Scott Buchta, head of mortgage strategy at Sandler O'Neill in Chicago.
The reactions of investors across various markets underscored how this new effort from the Fed differs from the last round of large-scale asset purchases. In that program, dubbed QE2 by market participants, the Fed essentially created money and used it to buy Treasurys. That pushed a range of assets higher including stocks, corporate bonds and commodities.
The announcement that the Fed would buy more mortgage securities came as a surprise to many investors. The Fed has recently been using the proceeds of maturing mortgages to buy Treasurys instead.
"It's a surprise to the market, for sure. People were not expecting this," said Franco Castagliuolo, a government-bond portfolio manager at Fidelity Investments. "It's going to help keep mortgage rates low. . .is really the bottom line."
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities paying interest of 3.5% and 4% led the mortgage-bond gains. Fannie Mae 4% bonds surged about 22/32 to 105 7/32, before falling back to 105 2/32 in more recent trade.
The two-year Treasury note yield rose to 0.198% from 0.125%.
Stock investors said that while the Fed darkened its economic outlook, its policy moves weren't forceful enough to address the new concerns.
"[The Fed] downgraded the economy but didn't use that as an excuse to do more," said Peter Tchir, managing partner at TF Market Advisors. "There was no new, ingenious
idea."
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/893412098/C1C3F5878AE64A34PQ/1?accountid=12861
1/3
6/28/2017
Fed Twist Prompts Markets to Turn - ProQuest
The S&P 500 fell 35.33 to 1166.76. The Nasdaq Composite lost 52.05, or 2%, to 2538.19.
Banks suffered amid the concerns about the impact on profits. Bank of America fell 7.5%, J.P. Morgan Chase lost 5.9% and Morgan Stanley lost 8.6%. Those declines came on a day when Moody's Investors Service Inc. downgraded the ratings of several major banks.
John Kanas, chief executive of BankUnited Inc. in Florida, described the Fed's decision as "devastatingly badly news" to small and midsize banks. Those banks will be less likely to make new loans, he said.
"This is going to twist the arms and legs off small banks in America," Mr. Kanas said.
The presence of a big new buyer came as a relief in the mortgage-backed-securities market, where analysts had been warning of weakness as some other buyers pulled away.
On the surface, buoying prices should help the housing market, as mortgage-backed securities provide funding for about 90% of all new loans.
While higher Treasury and mortgage-backed securities prices help lower consumer borrowing rates, there is some doubt that mortgage rates would fall much more. Banks haven't matched the recent plunge in Treasury yields with lower mortgage rates, analysts said.
What is more, the U.S. housing market and mortgage demand haven't responded much even though rates have been at their lowest in decades.
But in mortgage-backed securities, one of the most actively traded bond markets in the world, the Fed has "dramatically" changed the outlook for supply and demand, Ohmsatya Ravi, head of structured products research at Nomura Securities, said in a client note.
Robin Sidel contributed to this article.
Credit: By Matt Phillips, Min Zeng and Al Yoon
>
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/893412098/C1C3F5878AE64A34PQ/1?accountid=12861
2/3
6/28/2017
Fed Twist Prompts Markets to Turn - ProQuest
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Dow Jones averages
U Stock prices
U Daily markets (wsj)
Location
LJ United States--US
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/893412098/C1C3F5878AE64A34PQ/1?accountid=12861
3/3