5/30/2017
Market Nears Bear Territory; U.S. Stocks Down Almost 17% Since April High on Europe, Economic Concerns - ProQuest
More like this + Market Nears Bear Territory; U.S. Stocks Down Almost 17% Since April High on Europe, Economic Concerns
Browning, E S. Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Oct 2011: n/a.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 2.4% Monday, leaving the index down 16.8% from its April high, 3.2 percentage points away from the 20% decline that many analysts believe signals that a bear market is under way. A global manufacturing index compiled by J.P. Morgan showed the manufacturing sector contracting for the first time in more than two years as indexes of industrial activity in Europe, Japan and Brazil all showed output falling.
Full Text Translate
After turning in the worst quarter since the financial crisis, U.S. stocks started the new one by approaching the level considered a bear market.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 2.4% Monday, leaving the index down 16.8% from its April high, 3.2 percentage points away from the 20% decline that many analysts believe signals that a bear market is under way. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also fell sharply and is even closer to bear-market territory, down 19.4% since April. The indexes are at their lowest closing levels in more than a year.
By midday Tuesday in Asia, Japan's Nikkei average fell 1.6%, South Korea's Kospi fell 4.6% and Hong Kong's Heng Seng slipped 0.2%.
Investors blamed the drop on continuing fears of European debt defaults, which are sowing fears of a global recession. They pointed to a warning from Greece that it would fail to meet its government-deficit targets this year, which reinforced a widespread concern that Greece would default.
A global manufacturing index compiled by J.P. Morgan showed the manufacturing sector contracting for the first time in more than two years as indexes of industrial activity in Europe, Japan and Brazil all showed output falling.
That report trumped somewhat positive U.S. economic news. September manufacturing activity and vehicle sales were slightly better than expected, as was August construction data, although all three remain soft.
"The question is with the European debt, whether we have a default that is significant enough to hurt banks that have exposure," said Janna Sampson, co-chief investment officer at OakBrook Investments in Lisle, Ill., which oversees about $2.2 billion.
After falling 240.60 points Friday, the Dow dropped another 258.08 points Monday to 10655.30, its lowest close since Sept. 17, 2010. The S&P 500 dropped 32.19 points to 1099.23, its lowest since Sept. 8, 2010.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 837 stocks hit 52-week lows, as did 643 stocks on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Total trading volume in New York Stock Exchange stocks hit 5.91 billion shares, the year's ninth-heaviest trading day. Trading volume has generally been much heavier on down days than on up days in recent weeks, reflecting the depth of the worries about the future of stocks and the economy.
Monday's declines cap a two-month period of frayed nerves and damaged confidence in the investment community.
The troubles have been building since late July and early August, when fears about European debt and global growth took the Dow down 15.8% in three weeks. Stocks then entered a period of sharp ups-and-downs that repeatedly raised and dashed investor hopes, leaving many longer-term investors on the sidelines. The market became increasingly driven by short-term traders, including hedge funds, and those investors now have driven stocks to their lowest levels in more than a year.
Most other investments tied to world growth, including stock indexes in Japan, India, Germany, Britain and Brazil, declined sharply. On Monday, Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index finished at a 52-week low, as did copper and crude-oil futures.
Investments considered safe-havens, including U.S. Treasury bonds, the dollar and gold, rose in price. The rising price of the 10-year Treasury note drove its yield down to 1.787%, the lowest since Sept. 22.
While overall U.S. manufacturing growth was better than expected in September, the U.S. factory news wasn't all good. Most disappointing to investors and economists: New orders contracted in September, according to the monthly survey from the Institute for Supply Management. Economists called that a sign that factory activity could slow in coming months.
"Although some are taking this [survey] to mean 'recession averted,' we would hold the applause for now," said Michael Darda, chief economist at brokerage firm MKM Partners LLC, in a report to clients.
Most economists still aren't forecasting a U.S. recession, but they are becoming less comfortable in their optimism.
On Friday, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. issued a report warning that the risk of recession is increasing.
"Our base-case forecast continues to be that the US economy will avoid a recession, though the risks are high and rising," wrote Goldman economist Zach Pandl.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/895982603/13849318ACD2DDA135E/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Market Nears Bear Territory; U.S. Stocks Down Almost 17% Since April High on Europe, Economic Concerns - ProQuest
Investors also are nervous because October historically has been one of the more-volatile months for stocks. Of the 15 largest percentage declines in the history of the Dow industrials, eight came in October, including the crashes of 1929 and 1987. Two of the heaviest declines of 2008 came in October.
At the same time, five of the seven largest percentage gains in the Dow's history also have come in October. Some analysts were telling clients not to give up on the stock market.
Investors now await a stream of important economic and corporate news due to begin hitting markets in the next few days. The September report on job creation arrives Friday and the flood of third-quarter corporate earnings reports begins in the days after that.
Optimists are hoping that European leaders will stave off further stock declines by offering up some kind of fresh reassurances about their ability to prevent debt defaults.
They are hoping that corporate earnings, and corporate projections for the fourth quarter, will come in strong enough to persuade investors to stick with stocks.
As they wait, many investors appear to be less confident and more fearful. Based on the widespread convention that a 20% decline signals a bear market, the S&P 500 needs to fall only nine more points to be in a bear market. The Dow industrials, for their part, were just 407 points away.
Ben Casselman
contributed to this article.
Write to E.S. Browning at jim.browning@wsj.com
Credit: By E.S. Browning
Word count: 927
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
U Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Stock exchanges
U Recessions
LJ Economic conditions
LJ Manufacturing
Location
U United States--US
Search
Ebook Central e-books
1.	Historical Dictionary of the U. S. Army
<>
Wiley Trading : Stock Market Course (1)
3.	Key Indicators of the Labour Market (KILM) (7)
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/895982603/13849318ACD2DDA135E/3?accountid=14026
2/2