5/30/2017
Consumers Ramp Up Spending; Healthy Gains Follow Two Flat Months, but Incomes Lag and the Economy Still Confronts Big Risks - ProQuest
More like this +
Consumers Ramp Up Spending; Healthy Gains Follow Two Flat Months, but Incomes Lag and the Economy Still Confronts Big Risks
Reddy, Sudeep j>;. Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]30 Aug 2011: n/a.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Consumer spending posted strong gains in July despite weak income growth, the latest sign the economy gained some momentum at the start of the third quarter before the stock market began its recent gyrations.
Full Text Translate
Consumer spending posted strong gains in July despite weak income growth, the latest sign the economy gained some momentum at the start of the third quarter before the stock market began its recent gyrations.
Consumption rose 0.8% during the month, following a slight contraction in June, the Commerce Department said Monday. Adjusted for inflation, spending rose a healthy 0.5%--the strongest gain since December 2009--after two flat months.
The latest figures suggest the economy regained some strength at the start of the third quarter after extremely weak growth in the first half of the year. The numbers could help dispel fears that the economy was heading back into a recession this summer. Gasoline prices are already down about 10% since the spring, a drop that could provide more support for spending on other goods and services into the fall.
"At the moment, the economy is back on its feet after the temporary soft patch caused by $4 gasoline earlier this year," said Chris Rupkey, a U.S. economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.
The economy still faces substantial risks. Deeply depressed consumer sentiment--tied in part to the market turmoil and the contentious debt debate in Washington--could lead consumers to rein in their spending. An increase in auto-sector sales, following a spring slowdown, could prove to be only a temporary lift for the overall economy.
And recent surveys suggesting a sharp slowdown in manufacturing activity during August have renewed worries about a new downturn in the economy.
In the latest survey, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas on Monday said its gauge of general business activity moved deeper into negative territory this month, indicating a sharper pullback among manufacturers in the region.
While a separate gauge of companies' outlook was less positive than it was in July, the Dallas Fed said "the great majority of respondents said their outlooks were unchanged or improved from last month."
Meanwhile, a measure of activity in the housing market showed more weakness. The index of pending home sales from the National Association of Realtors fell 1.3% in July after two months of gains. The measure, which uses contract signings to forecast sales of existing homes in the coming months, pointed to more pain ahead for the housing market.
Consumers boosted their spending in July in part by saving less. The personal saving rate fell to 5% from 5.5%.
Overall personal income rose 0.3% during the month, but it failed to keep up with inflation and taxes. Inflation-adjusted income after taxes dipped 0.1% in the first decline since September. Incomes will need to pick up--through improvement in the labor market--to maintain strength in consumer spending in coming months.
"Income gains are highly correlated with job growth so unless job creation accelerates, income growth will continue to be sluggish," said Steven Wood, chief economist at Insight Economics.
The Commerce Department's report showed a continued pickup in the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation. The price index for personal consumption expenditures rose 0.4% in July from the prior month, the largest increase since March.
Excluding volatile food and energy prices, the core inflation remained flat at 0.2% from a month earlier but year-over-year inflation rose to 1.6%, from 1.4% in June. The annual core inflation rate is likely to continue moving into the Fed's comfort zone of a bit below 2%, and could even exceed it, potentially constraining the Fed from taking large new action to boost the economy unless the economic outlook deteriorates further.
Write to Sudeep Reddy at sudeep.reddy@wsj.com
Credit: By Sudeep Reddy
Word count: 585
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this n
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/885676832/Record/138491354F65C749371/3?accountid=12861
1/2
5/30/2017
Consumers Ramp Up Spending; Healthy Gains Follow Two Flat Months, but Incomes Lag and the Economy Still Confronts Big Risks - ProQuest
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Economic growth
U Economic statistics
U Gasoline prices
U Central banks
U Recessions
LJ Stock exchanges
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/885676832/Record/138491354F65C749371/3?accountid=12861
2/2