5/30/2017
Chinese Shares Stumble Further --- After 'Black Monday,' Shanghai Composite falls early Tuesday, but other markets perk up - ProQuest
More like this + Chinese Shares Stumble Further --- After 'Black Monday,' Shanghai Composite falls early Tuesday, but other markets perk up
Deng, Chao; Trivedi, Anjani. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]25 Aug 2015: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Driving the global selloff is the concern that the once-highflying Chinese economy may be slowing significantly, which has triggered steep losses in global stock markets, commodities and emerging-market currencies. Traders are looking to China's next easing move after The Wall Street Journal reported that the central bank is preparing to flood the banking system with liquidity to increase lending.\n
Full Text Translate
Chinese stocks tumbled again early Tuesday, but other markets in Asia rebounded after a big global selloff, a signal that China's effect on stocks could be waning.
Shares from Australia to Hong Kong staged a rebound, while Japan's Nikkei recouped losses and was up about 1% Tuesday morning. Currencies were largely flat after many hit multiyear lows against the dollar on Monday. Meanwhile, major U.S. stock futures contracts were about 2% higher.
"There was no clear catalyst for the sharp selloff, so some investors now think the collapse has gone far enough." said Bernard Aw, a market strategist at Singapore-based brokerage IG. He added that investors are questioning whether the China economic slowdown and the prospect of the Federal Reserve raising rates were enough to drive the decline, or whether markets were hit by panic selling.
Chinese stocks suffered their worst single-day loss in more than eight years on Monday, setting off a global market rout that dragged the Dow Jones Industrial average to an 18-month low. Shares in Shanghai fell an additional 6.4% at the open on Tuesday, putting the index at 3004, just above the psychologically important 3000 level.
Investors were frustrated that the Chinese government hadn't stepped in with additional measures to boost the economy and the markets.
The plunge in China shines an unwelcome spotlight on the country's financial condition just as its leaders are putting on two big events meant to showcase China's global standing.
Chinese government media dubbed it "Black Monday," a surprisingly bleak description to come from the People's Daily, which normally tries to cushion bad news. The Shanghai Composite Index's 8.5% loss was its biggest percentage decline since February 2007, leaving the market down 0.8% for the year and down 38% from its mid-June peak. At that point, stocks were up 60% for the year, having doubled over the preceding 12 months.
"Compared with the selloff in June and July, when investors still harbored hope of government rescue measures, this time investors are completely despairing, because the previous government stabilization measure have failed," said Amy Lin, analyst at Capital Securities.
Coming on top of a global downturn on Friday, it spurred more selling across Asia, Europe and the U.S. The Dow Industrials tumbled 588.40 points, or 3.6%, to 15871.35, the lowest level since February 2014. Minutes after the open of U.S. trading, the blue-chip index plummeted more than 1,000 points but later pared losses.
Driving the global selloff is the concern that the once-highflying Chinese economy may be slowing significantly, which has triggered steep losses in global stock markets, commodities and emerging-market currencies. China's surprise currency devaluation two weeks ago -- which could make its exports more competitive -- and a string of weak data signal the economy may be feebler than expected, despite a campaign to rev up growth that has included interest-rate cuts and measures to boost lending.
The smaller Shenzhen market fell 7.7% to 1882.46, putting it down 40% from its June peak. Both indexes have fallen past bottoms hit in early July. In the days leading up to that low point, the government intervened to stem the selling.
Mark Lu, 30 years old, said after the government started buying stocks to boost the market, he followed suit. "I have never thought of the plunge," he said. "It totally ran counter to the government's intention."
Mr. Lu said he is planning to load up on more stocks, as he believes the market is nearing the bottom. "I know it sounds like a gamble," he said. "But sometimes the Chinese market is indeed a casino."
The decline comes at an embarrassing time for China's leaders. The government already has shut down parts of central Beijing in preparation for a Sept. 3 parade that will feature about 12,000 troops and nearly 200 aircraft. Marking the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, it is meant to highlight how far the country has come since then.
The other big event, the world track-and-field championships, serves as a reminder of a recent high point in China. The competition is being held in the stadium known as the Bird's Nest, built for the 2008 Olympics, when the country was coming off three years of nearly 13% annual growth.
Shanghai's performance is increasingly a factor for investors in global markets, even though China's mainland market isn't yet fully accessible to foreigners.
Stock markets across the region -- from Japan to Australia -- slid more than 4%, and a number of currencies in the region fell to multiyear lows on Monday.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/1706429224/BE7F01B88FBD4459PQ/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017	Chinese Shares Stumble Further --- After 'Black Monday,' Shanghai Composite falls early Tuesday, but other markets perk up - ProQuest
Traders are looking to China's next easing move after The Wall Street Journal reported that the central bank is preparing to flood the banking system with liquidity to increase lending.
One measure analysts are expecting is a cut to banks' reserve-ratio requirements, the third such cut in an easing cycle that began last November. Such a move, allowing banks to keep a lower share of their deposits on reserve at the central bank, could potentially free up hundreds of billions of yuan in funds from banks to make loans.
Some 2,153 stocks trading in Shanghai and Shenzhen fell by the 10% daily limit allowed by regulators, according to Wind Information Co. That means at least two-thirds of mainland shares were effectively untradable -- bargain hunters have to wait until at least the next trading day. Among the hardest-hit stocks in China were brokerages. Citic Securities Co., one of China's biggest, was down by its 10% limit Monday and has fallen more than 50% this year.
The global stock rout hit India, which had been one of the best-performing emerging markets in the world. India's S&P BSE Sensex fell 5.9%, its largest one-day percentage drop since January 2009. For the year, the benchmark is down 6.4%, at 25741.56 -- its lowest point in 13 months.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index, which last week slipped into bear-market territory -- defined as a drop of more than 20% from a recent high -- slid a further 5.2% to 21251.57. A benchmark of Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies fell below 10000 for the first time in more than a year, finishing off 5.8% at 9602.29.
Hong Kong Financial Secretary John Tsang held a news conference in a bid to calm jitters. "Hong Kong's financial market is still operating in an orderly manner and in a smooth fashion," he said.
Japan's Nikkei Stock Average was down 4.6%, Australia's S&PASX 200 was off 4.1% and South Korea's Kospi was down 2.5%. Taiwan's Taiex, Asia's worst-performing stock index this year -- down 20% -- fell 4.8%.
In currencies, losses accelerated as nervous investors pulled out cash. The Malaysian ringgit led the way, falling to a fresh 17-year low, while the Thai baht fell to a six-year low and the South Korean won to a four-year low, all when measured against the U.S. dollar. Indonesia's rupiah weakened to a multiyear low, while the Philippine peso fell to its weakest in almost five years.
Rose Yu contributed to this article.
Credit: By Chao Deng and Anjani Trivedi
Word count: 1176
(c) 2015 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Athletes
U American dollar
U Investments
U Dow Jones averages
U Statistical data
LJ Securities markets
Location
U Japan
U United States--US
U Australia
U China
U Asia
U Hong Kong
Search
Ebook Central e-books
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/1706429224/BE7F01B88FBD4459PQ/3?accountid=14026
2/2