5/30/2017 Britain's EU Decision: A Grim Year for Deals Gets Worse --- Companies that won't be bought, stock and bond offers put on hold are early victims - ProQ...
More like this + Britain's EU Decision: A Grim Year for Deals Gets Worse --- Companies that won't be bought, stock and bond offers put on hold are early victims Margot, Patrick. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]27 June 2016: A.8.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
There were also concerns about the planned merger between Deutsche Boerse AG and London Stock Exchange Group PLC, and whether London still makes sense as the planned headquarters of the combined entity.
Full Text Translate
LONDON -- Deal-making bankers and lawyers are pointing to early victims of Britons' vote to leave the European Union: companies that won't be bought and stock and bond offers put on hold until Britain's next steps are clearer.
A number of U.K. and European deals had been lined up in the event of a remain vote in anticipation of buoyant markets once the uncertainty around the referendum was dispelled. Instead, an already grim year for U.K. mergers and acquisitions and securities sales is seen as getting worse after stocks and sterling plummeted on Friday.
At least half a dozen U.K. companies that had planned to start initial public offerings or debt-financing deals next week have had to change tack, people working on those deals said. A senior banker at an U.S. investment bank in London said the IPO market "will be tough for a while," and lawyers said the only M&A they expect now are opportunistic swoops by foreign buyers on long-wanted British targets.
"I would expect that M&A deal volume in the EU will be very muted if not frozen until the markets stabilize and the ramifications of the exit become clearer," said Bart Friedman, a senior partner at Cahill Gordon & Reindel. "Cross-border activity in Europe having any degree of significant U.K. involvement is likely over for the rest of this year," he said.
Many companies took a wait-and-see approach in the run-up to the vote, figuring it wasn't worth the risk to try to guess the outcome.
Thomson Reuters figures put U.K. M&A at its lowest level on record this year, accounting for just 4% of global activity through mid-June. Inbound cross-border M&A in the U.K. is down 74% from the period a year ago. Dealogic data show just $3.33 billion was raised in the U.K. IPOs from January to mid-June, down from $8.29 billion in the 2015 period.
A pullback means lower fee revenue for the bankers, lawyers and other advisers who keep U.K. deals ticking. Investment-banking fees paid by U.K. companies dropped 22% from a year ago to $1.9 billion, according to Thomson Reuters. Capital-markets fees in the U.K. fell 37% from the same January to mid-June period last year, making 2016 the slowest year since 2003 for those fees.
Following Thursday's outcome there are questions about M&A already under way, such as Anheuser-Busch InBev's $108 billion offer for SAB Miller PLC. Bankers said the deal could be complicated by "Brexit" as the weaker pound could make AB InBev's Sterling-based offer to SAB Miller shareholders less appealing and add to charges for AB InBev. AB InBev already lost $599 million in the first quarter on its currency hedges from the deal, the company disclosed in May.
A spokeswoman for Anheuser-Busch InBev said the company didn't want to speculate on potential hypothetical impacts of Britain's decision to leave the European Union.
There were also concerns about the planned merger between Deutsche Boerse AG and London Stock Exchange Group PLC, and whether London still makes sense as the planned headquarters of the combined entity. The two companies on Friday said the merger won't be derailed by Brexit.
"Some people have Brexit provisions in their contracts but I don't see a huge raft of contracted deals falling apart," said Richard Browne, a partner at Allen & Overy.
"Most of the questions I've been getting from clients is on wanting to know what everyone else is doing," he said.
Laurence Fletcher contributed to this article.
Credit: By Margot Patrick
Word count: 582
(c) 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/1 799523755/C1E2CFD016014DF8PQ/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017 Britain's EU Decision: A Grim Year for Deals Gets Worse --- Companies that won't be bought, stock and bond offers put on hold are early victims - ProQ...
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Initial public offerings
U Acquisitions & mergers
U EU membership
U Economic impact
Location
LJ United Kingdom--UK
Search
Ebook Central e-books
The Letters of T. S. Eliot
2.	Brazil Is the New America : How Brazil Offers Upward Mobility in a Collap...
BRAZIL IS I HE NEW AMERICA
Hutchinson Guide to Britain
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/1 799523755/C1E2CFD016014DF8PQ/3?accountid=14026
2/2