U.S. Stocks Sell Off on Concerns About Trade; Dow tumbles more than 700 points, pulled down by shares of manufacturers and banks
Wursthorn, Michael; Otani, Akane . Wall Street Journal (Online) ; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 Mar 2018: n/a.
ProQuest document link
FULL TEXT
Trade-war fears, along with broader concerns about technology companies and the outlook for economic growth and interest rates, intensified Thursday, sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbling more than 700 points and adding to fears that stocks could be headed for a larger reckoning.
Thursday's selling, which sent shares of manufacturers, aluminum producers and steelmakers sharply lower, culminates months of growing investor anxiety over U.S. trade policy. It came as many say the market was already under pressure, gripped by concern over rising interest rates and sliding technology shares.
Trade tensions ratcheted higher as the Trump administration said it would impose tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of Chinese imports on top of duties on steel and aluminum imports, provoking the ire of officials from China to Germany to Mexico.
Investors had widely brushed off concerns about trade and rising interest rates until earlier this year. But signs that interest rates will rise more quickly than expected, along with the Trump administration's aggressive push to narrow the U.S. trade deficit, drove a resurgence in volatility and renewed worries among investors that the nine-year bull market is losing its momentum.
"The stakes are getting higher and larger, and that's what the market is thinking about," said Ken Taubes, chief investment officer--U. S. investment management at Amundi Pioneer. Investors are concerned that China will retaliate, leading to "tit for tat" escalations of policies hindering trade and leading to slower growth, he said. The Dow industrials gave up 724.42 points, or 2.9%, to 23957.89, posting their biggest one-day percentage decline since Feb. 8, when they fell into correction territory for the first time in more than two years. The S&P 500 fell 68.24 points, or 2.5%, to 2643.69, sliding back into negative territory for the year, while the Nasdaq Composite lost 178.61 points, or 2.4%, to 7166.68.
Investors still widely agree that the global economy looks robust. Yet many worry that growth could stall if the White House's trade measures lead to retaliatory moves by other countries, crimping the global trade recovery that has helped power the world's economic rebound.
Among the stocks taking the biggest hit Thursday: manufacturers, whose profits could slide if the White House's plan to impose 25% tariffs on steel imports and 10% on aluminum imports drives up their production costs. Farm-machinery maker Deere &Co. shed $6.47, or 4.1%, to $151.58, while airplane giant Boeing fell $17.49, or 5.2%, to $319.61, and heavy-machinery maker Caterpillar shed $8.90, or 5.7%, to $146.90.
"It seems like the whole process is skewed against success for the U.S.," said Michael Scanlon, a portfolio manager at Manulife Asset Management, referring to the trade tariffs. "Look at companies in the crosshairs of this. It's Boeing and Caterpillar."
Shares of steelmakers and aluminum producers dove, with Century Aluminum dropping $3.64, or 18%, to $16.76 for its biggest one-day percentage decline since August, and United States Steel sliding $4.26, or 11%, to $34.50. As stocks across the board fell, investors sought the safety of assets like gold, the Japanese yen and U.S. Treasury
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 3
bonds, which tend to fare better during periods of heightened market volatility.
Utilities stocks in the S&P 500, thought of as bondlike because of their relatively hefty dividend payouts, added
0.4% and were the only sector in the broad index to finish the day higher.
Gold for March delivery gained $5.90, or 0.45%, to $1,326.60 a troy ounce, while the yield on the benchmark U.S. 10year Treasury note fell to 2.832% from 2.901% Wednesday--its biggest one-day decline in more than six months. Bond prices rise as yields fall.
The slide in bond yields weighed on shares of banks, whose lending margins rise with interest rates. The KBW Nasdaq Bank Index of large U.S. lenders slid 4.1%, posting its biggest one-day drop since stocks fell into correction territory Feb. 8.
While industrial conglomerates and other "old economy" stocks struggled, some of last year's best-performing technology shares came under fresh pressure, adding to the market's downbeat day.
Facebook, whose shares have skidded since the company reported a third-party firm had improperly kept its users' data, declined $4.50, or 2.7%, to $164.89, bringing its losses over the past four days to 11%. Fears that the backlash to Facebook could push regulators to tighten rules for social- media companies sent other technology shares lower, with Twitter and Google parent Alphabet losing more than 3% apiece.
Tech stocks were a major contributor to the indexes' record-setting year in 2017. Many investors worry that their stumble will exacerbate the recent swings in the stock market.
The tech sector's valuation relative to the broader market has climbed to its highest since late 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which leaves it exposed to any slowdown in expected earnings or disappointing news.
"Any time you sold any of the FANG stocks, you've been penalized for doing it," said John Creswell, executive managing director at Duff &Phelps Investment Management, referring to shares of Facebook, Amazon.com, Netflix and Alphabet, which are commonly known by that acronym. "But this could be the first time you see jitters." Daniel Kruger contributed to this article.
Write to Michael Wursthorn at Michael.Wursthorn@wsj.com and Akane Otani at akane.otani@wsj.com Related
* U.S. to Apply Tariffs on Chinese Imports, Restrict Tech Deals
* Volatility Swings Reach New Milestone
* Shares of Manufacturers Among Hardest Hit
Credit: By Michael Wursthorn and Akane Otani
DETAILS
Subject:	Interest rates; Crude oil prices; Central banks; Stock exchanges; American dollar
Location:	New Zealand United States--US Philippines United Kingdom--UK Australia China Hong Kong Indonesia Taiwan Japan South Korea
People:	Trump, Donald J
Company / organization:	Name: Bank of New York Mellon Corp; NAICS: 522110, 522292, 551111; Name: Federal Open Market Committee--FOMC; NAICS: 921130; Name: Reserve Bank of New Zealand; NAICS: 521110
Publication title:	Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
Pages:	n/a
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 3
Publication year:	2018
Publication date:	Mar 22, 2018
column:	U.S. Markets
Section:	Markets
Publisher:	Dow Jones &Company Inc
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	Business And Economics
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	2016120633
Document URL:	https://search.proquest.com/docview/2016120633?accountid=14026
Copyright:	(c) 2018 Dow Jones &Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
Last updated:	2018-03-23
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS
Check SFX for Availability
Database copyright © 2018 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 3