U.S. Stocks Surge as Trade Worries Ease; The Dow industrials, after its worst week in more than two years, records its biggest one-day point gain in about a decade
Banerji, Gunjan; Kantchev, Georgi . Wall Street Journal (Online) ; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]26 Mar 2018: n/a.
ProQuest document link
FULL TEXT
U.S. stocks staged a powerful rebound on Monday, surging on signs that recent trade tensions were easing as the Dow Jones Industrial Average notched its third biggest point-gain ever.
The Dow Industrials advanced 669.40 points, or 2.8%, to 24202.60, its largest one-day point gain since October 2008.
The buying accelerated toward the end of the trading day, sending other major indexes to their biggest gains in years, too. The Nasdaq Composite added 227.88 points, or 3.3%, to 7220.54 and the S&P 500 rose 70.29 points, or 2.7%, to 2658.55. Both these indexes and the Dow Industrials recorded their biggest percentage jumps since August 2015.
Shares of financial and technology companies within the S&P 500 were some of the biggest winners Monday after investors dumped them in prior sessions, though all sectors got a lift.
The reprieve for U.S. stocks comes after the worst week in more than two years. U.S. plans to hit China with tariffs on as much as $60 billion in imports and other restrictions--and the immediate threat of Chinese retaliation--rattled global markets. .
Investor fears that escalating trade tensions could eventually lead to a trade war eased after reports of renewed discussions between the two countries. The Wall Street Journal reported Sunday that China and the U.S. have started negotiating to improve U.S. access to mainland Chinese markets. U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Sunday said the administration was "working on a pathway to see if we can reach an agreement as to what fair trade is for them."
South Korea's trade ministry also said on Monday the U.S. and Seoul agreed to amend their free-trade deal to address U.S. concerns about a growing deficit and resolve friction over tariffs on South Korean steel. South Korea was granted a permanent exemption from 25% import tariffs on steel.
With trade concerns subsiding, many investors refocused on the factors that have helped boost stocks in recent months. The U.S. economy remains strong, potentially providing fuel to the nine-year bull market, analysts said. "The trade-tariffs talk appears to be more posturing, and so far there is no meaningful economic impact," said Eric Freedman, chief investment officer at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which has $151 billion under management. Still, others suggested the path forward for stocks would likely remain choppy.
"I still think that the fundamentals are solid and the most likely path is up. But the chance of a breakdown is getting more real by the day," said Brad McMillan, chief investment officer for Commonwealth Financial Network. A measure of stock volatility sank on Monday, but some investors remained cautious, warning that market turbulence was unlikely to subside in the near term. Continued discussions on trade tariffs and other geopolitical news will likely drive stock swings; turnover in the White House remains a point of concern for some, analysts said.
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 3
Investors are also grappling with other potential threats, including rising interest rates and a possible tightening of
regulations for tech giants.
"I don't think it's clear sailing," said Eddie Perkin, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance. "There's a lot more
nervousness in the market than there was six weeks ago."
Some investors said the technology sector in particular remained susceptible to a swoon, given how bullish investors had gotten toward the group.
Shares of Facebook rose 67 cents, or 0.4%, to $160.06 Monday after the company's biggest weekly tumble since 2012, driven by concerns over the social media giant's handling of user data. Microsoft was the biggest winner in the S&P 500, surging 6.60, or 7.6%, to 93.78.
This week, traders will be keeping an eye out for inflation numbers in the eurozone and new estimates on economic growth in the U.S.
Some said the market's trajectory in the next few days would be key.
The S&P 500 hovered above its 200-day moving average on Monday, a technical indicator that infuses some investors with confidence in the bounce in stocks. Moving above or below that level can signal rising or dwindling stock market momentum, respectively.
The index closed about three points above that level on Friday and hasn't fallen below the threshold on a closing basis since June 2016, shortly after the British vote to leave the European Union.
"Just a couple of weeks ago, we were at all-time highs. The question really is, can the market regain its strength?" said Mr. McMillan.
Elsewhere, the Stoxx Europe 600 fell 0.7%.
In Asia, Japan's Nikkei Stock Average finished up 0.7%, having earlier declined as much as 1.3%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index rose 0.8%.
Gregor Stuart Hunter contributed to this article.
Write to Gunjan Banerji at Gunjan.Banerji@wsj.com and Georgi Kantchev at georgi.kantchev@wsj.com Credit: By Gunjan Banerji and Georgi Kantchev
DETAILS
Subject:	Steel industry
Location:	Australia New Zealand China Riyadh Saudi Arabia United States--US Asia Saudi Arabia Japan
People:	Mnuchin, Steven T
Company / organization:	Name: Wall Street Journal; NAICS: 511110
Publication title:	Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
Pages:	n/a
Publication year:	2018
Publication date:	Mar 26, 2018
column:	U.S. Markets
Section:	Markets
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 3
Publisher:	Dow Jones &Company Inc
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	Business And Economics
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	201781221 0
Document URL:	https://search.proquest.com/docview/2017812210?accountid=14026
Copyright:	(c) 2018 Dow Jones &Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
Last updated:	2018-03-27
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS
Check SFX for Availability
Database copyright © 2018 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 3