Shares Fall as China Raises Trade Tensions
Phillips, Matt. New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]06 Aug 2019:
B.2.
c^ProQuest document link
FULL TEXT
China introduced a powerful weapon to the trade war on Monday, letting its currency weaken sharply in a move
that left financial markets lurching and investors worried about how the worsening hostilities between Beijing and
Washington would affect corporate profits and the already slowing pace of global growth.
On Wall Street, stocks experienced their steepest drop of the year, conclusively ending a period of steady trading
during which the market notched record after record.
The recent calm was first punctured last week by President Trump's threat to impose new tariffs on $300 billion of
imports from China. But it was Beijing's decision to allow its currency to cross the psychologically important
barrier of 7 per dollar that pushed investors to abandon any lingering hope that a trade truce -- worked out in a
face-to-face meeting between Mr. Trump and Xi Jinping, China's leader, a little over a month ago -- would hold.
"That has just totally disintegrated," said Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial. "Now China is just
clearly firing back, and that has people uncomfortable."
The S&P 500 fell nearly 3 percent on Monday, the benchmark index's sixth straight decline. The sell-off has lopped
a significant chunk off this year's market gains. The S&P 500 was up 20.7 percent for the year as recently as July
26. After Monday, investors were up 13.5 percent.
The rout on Wall Street followed an overnight sell-off in Asian and European markets, prompted by a drop of more
than 1 percent against the dollar for China's tightly controlled currency, the renminbi.
A move of that magnitude is considered quite large in the currency markets. But it was especially notable for the
renminbi, which China has kept from crossing 7 for more than a decade. The decision to let the currency's value
fall was widely viewed as a signal that Beijing was girding for a protracted battle over trade, technology and
economic hegemony with the United States.
The People's Bank of China, in a bluntly worded statement on Monday, tied the currency's dip to Mr. Trump's
"unilateralism and trade protectionism measures and the imposition of increased tariffs on China."
Also on Monday, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported that Chinese enterprises had stopped making new
purchases of American agricultural products, citing Mr. Trump's plan to further increase tariffs on China as a
"serious violation" of the consensus reached when he and Mr. Xi met in Osaka, Japan, in June.
The apparent escalation in the dispute between Washington and Beijing hammered share values across markets.
Prices for commodities like copper, lead and iron, which are typically linked to the outlook for Chinese and global
growth, fell.
Signs of economic softness also pushed investors to buy up government bonds, raising prices and sharply driving
down yields, which move in the opposite direction. On Monday, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note hovered near
1.74 percent.
The decline in long-term government bond yields suggests that investors are again downgrading their views of the
economy.
It is widely accepted that the battle between the world's two largest economies has slowed the global economy,
but investors are increasingly worried that it could begin to weigh on the less trade-dependent American domestic
economy, which is experiencing its longest-ever expansion.
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 3
Unemployment remains at a 50-year low in the United States, but there are reasons for concern. The paces of both
economic and job growth have slowed in recent months. Business investment has turned negative. On Monday, a
key gauge of the services sector's strength fell to its lowest level since late 2016.
JPMorgan Chase economists published a note saying that by some models, the risk of recession starting within a
year is now 40 percent, based on the yield curve.
The concerns have also crept into the stock market. On Monday, the Russell 2000 index of small stocks, weighted
toward more of the kind of domestically focused companies that had been insulated from the trade battle, was
also battered, dropping 3 percent.
The pain was worse for companies with particularly close ties to China. Wynn Resorts, which relies heavily on
casino operations in Macau that cater to gamblers from mainland China, was among the worst-performing stocks
in the S&P 500, tumbling 7.2 percent. The electronics retailer Best Buy, which gets many of the products it sells
from China, dropped 3.5 percent.
Technology stocks made up the hardest hit section of the market, falling roughly 4 percent. The tech giants
Microsoft (3.4 percent) and Apple (5.2 percent) both dropped sharply.
Selling was also heavy in shares of computer chip makers, which generate significant revenue from sales to
technology manufacturers based in mainland China. Nvidia fell 6.5 percent, and Micron Technology dropped more
than 4.9 percent. An index of semiconductor stocks fell 4.4 percent.
[Why the number 7 makes China's currency a trade weapon .]
The market declines seemed to undercut hopes for a quick rebound from the selling of last week -- the S&P 500's
worst of the year. The poor performance of last week came even as the Federal Reserve delivered a widely
expected decision to cut its key monetary policy target rate by a quarter of a percentage point.
But the tone struck by Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, at a news conference after the decision appeared to
underwhelm investors, who wanted to hear that policymakers were ready to continue cutting rates in the coming
months. Mr. Powell's description of the cut as a "midcycle adjustment to policy" suggested to some people that
the central bank viewed rate cuts as temporary and tactical, rather than the start of a longer-term push.
"You've got trade policy escalating; you've got Fed policy uncertainty," said Dan Clifton, a partner at Strategas
Research Partners, a financial and economic consulting firm, adding that the market was "basically de-risking until
you get clarity on really either one of those issues."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Chart
The S&P 500 Index: Position of the S&P 500 index at 1-minute intervals on Monday. (Source: Refinitiv)
DETAILS
Subject:	Investments; Tariffs; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Stock exchanges; American dollar
Location:	Beijing China United States--US China Macao Japan
People:	Trump, Donald J Xi Jinping
Company / organization:	Name: JPMorgan Chase &Co; NAICS: 522110, 522292, 523110; Name: Xinhua News Agency; NAICS: 519110; Name: Peoples Bank of China; NAICS: 521110; Name: Microsoft Corp; NAICS: 334614, 511210; Name: Wynn Resorts Ltd; NAICS: 721120; Name: Best Buy Co Inc; NAICS: 443141,443142; Name: Micron Technology Inc; NAICS: 334413
ProQuest
Que
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 3
URL:	https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/05/business/stocks-trade-china-currency.html
Publication title:	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
Pages:	B.2
Publication year:	2019
Publication date:	Aug 6,2019
Section:	B
Publisher:	New York Times Company
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	Uni ted States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	General Interest Periodicals-United States
ISSN:	03624331
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	2268509946
Document URL:	htt ps://search. proquest. com/docview/2268509946?accountid=l 4026
Copyright:	Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2019
Last updated:	2019-08-06
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS Check SFX for Availability	
Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 3