Trump Swings at China, and Markets Duck
Phillips, Matt. New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Aug 2019:
B.2.
<?ProQuest document link
FULL TEXT
Stocks fell sharply on Wall Street on Friday after President Trump responded to China’s threat of new tariffs on
American imports with an angry volley of tweets, helping to push the market to its fourth-straight weekly loss.
The S&P 500 dropped 2.6 percent, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq index fell 3 percent. The Dow Jones
industrial average declined 2.4 percent.
Investors were on edge before trading started after Beijing vowed to answer the Trump administration’s next round
of tariffs on Chinese goods by increasing tariffs on American imports.
Stocks opened trading lower after the announcement, but found their footing and began to move higher. Then,
around 11 a.m., Mr. Trump took to Twitter.
”We don’t need China and, frankly, would be far better off without them,” he wrote in one message.
In another post, Mr. Trump said that American companies were ’’hereby ordered to immediately start looking for an
alternative to China,” adding that he would respond to China’s tariff threat later in the day.
Around 5 p.m., Mr. Trump said would increase the existing tariffs on $250 billion of Chinese goods to 30 percent
from the current 25 percent, beginning Oct. 1. Fie also said the United States would tax another $300 billion in
Chinese imports at a rate of 1 5 percent rate, rather than the 10 percent he had initially planned to go into effect in
September.
Almost immediately after the president’s late-morning tweets, shares began to dive as investors turned their
attention away from the calming effects of a speech by Jerome FI. Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, and back
toward the trade war between the world’s two largest economies.
The trading on Friday was a prime example of the crosscurrents that are confounding investors. Throughout the
year, stocks have tumbled on concerns about the continuing trade Fight, only to be lifted by hopes that interest-rate
cuts by the Fed would contain the damage caused by the conflict. More tariff threats from Beijing or Washington
then start the cycle again.
The dynamic has done considerable damage to stocks in recent weeks. As recently as July 26, the S&P 500 was up
almost 21 percent for the year. But after four consecutive weeks of losses, investors are sitting on a more modest
13.6 percent gain.
In his speech at a conference in Jackson, Wyo., Mr. Powell noted that rising uncertainty over the administration’s
trade policy was a challenge for the central bank.
But he reiterated that the Fed would act as needed to keep a decade-plus expansion going. Financial market prices
suggest that investors are certain the Fed will cut interest rates for a second time this year when it meets next
month.
Mr. Powell’s speech did little to change those expectations, and stocks were largely unchanged afterward. Mr.
Trump’s statements on Twitter drove the market sharply lower again.
Energy stocks experienced the steepest losses in the S&P 500, falling 3.4 percent, as crude oil prices dropped
roughly 2 percent. Shares in technology companies and semiconductor makers, both of which have been
especially sensitive to signs that the trade Fight between China and the United States was worsening, tumbled. The
S&P 500 technology sector lost 3.3 percent, while a popular index of semiconductor stocks fell 4.4 percent.
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 3
In its announcement on Friday, the Chinese government said it would retaliate against the Trump administration’s
plans for two batches of tariffs on $300 billion in Chinese imports, on Sept. 1 and Dec. 15, with levies on $75 billion
of American imports on the same schedule.
It was the latest move in a tit-for-tat battle that has shown growing signs of hurting the global economy. There is
mounting evidence that the global industrial sector in particular is weakening. Germany, the Europe’s trade-
sensitive economic engine, contracted in the second quarter. And growth in industrial production in China has
fallen to its lowest level since 2002.
Concerns about economic growth have touched off a global rush of money into the safety of bond markets. That
has pushed bond prices up, while driving yields sharply lower. Such drops suggest that investors are lowering their
expectations for economic growth and inflation.
The trend continued on Friday, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note plunging to 1.52 percent. The collapse in
long-term Treasury bond yields this year has pushed them below yields on shorter-term debt, an unusual situation
known as an inversion of the yield curve.
Yield-curve inversions are considered one of the most reliable, though not particularly timely, leading indicators
that an economic downturn is coming. Every recession in United States in the past 60 years has been preceded by
an inversion, with the economy typically falling into recession some time in the following 24 months.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Chart
The S&P 500 Index: Position of the S&P 500 index at 1 -minute intervals on Friday. (Source: Refinitiv); New-Flome
Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce
Department)
DETAILS
Subject	Recessions; Crude oil prices; Economic growth; Tariffs; Dow Jones averages; Economic conditions; Economic indicators; Stock exchanges
Location:	Beijing China United States--US Germany China Europe
People:	Trump, Donald J
Company / organization:	Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130
URL	https://www.nytimes.corn/2019/08/23/business/stocks-market-tariffs.html
Publication title:	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
Pages:	B.2
Publication year:	2019
Publication date:	Aug 24,2019
Section:	B
Publisher	New York Times Company
Place Of publication:	New York,	N.Y.
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM	Page	2	of	3
County of piMcatlon:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication sii>Ject	General Interest Periodicals-United States
ISSN:	03624331
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document IDs	2278367305
Docwnent URL:	https7/search.proquest.com/docview/2278367305?accountid=l 4026
Copyright	Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24,2019
Lest updated	2019-09-12
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS Check SFX for Availability	
Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 3