Fed's Approach And Jobs Data Excite Wall St.
Kitroeff, Natalie . New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]05 Jan
2019: A.1.
c^ProQuest document link
FULL TEXT
A blockbuster jobs report and reassuring comments from the Federal Reserve chairman reminded investors Friday
to relish, at least for now, the economy's undeniable strengths.
Markets reacted buoyantly, after lurching for weeks over a faltering outlook at home and signs of a global
slowdown.
The Labor Department report showed one of the strongest months of job gains in the last decade, with employers
adding 312,000 to payrolls in December. Wages, which had been lagging until recently, showed impressive gains.
Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chief, cheered the report, while offering assurances that policymakers would not move
quickly to raise interest rates. Investors had been concerned that additional rate increases would weigh on growth.
"2018, by so many measures, was a good year for the United States economy," he said at an economic conference
in Atlanta.
Fie also sought to ease concerns about the stability of the central bank. When asked whether he would resign if
President Trump asked him to, Mr. Powell simply said, "No."
Wall Street's enthusiastic response to the jobs numbers was magnified by Mr. Powell's comments. The S&P 500
index closed up more than 3 percent.
"It's an unequivocally phenomenal report all the way around," said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist at
Morgan Stanley. "Anyone that finds something negative in this report is simply cherry picking."
Economists offered raves that could appear on a movie poster or a book jacket -- "Extraordinary!" "Blowout," "Wow!"
The figures, they said, offer a resounding response to the question of whether a recession is imminent: "Never
mind!" said David Berson, chief economist of Nationwide. "The fears of the economy tipping into a recession now
have clearly been overstated."
Mr. Trump welcomed the stellar showing in televised remarks delivered in the White Flouse Rose Garden. "312,000
jobs was a tremendous number and obviously having a big impact on the stock market today," he said, adding that
the pickup in wage growth was "beautiful to watch."
But the latest report comes in the context of flashing yellow lights elsewhere, which Mr. Powell acknowledged on
Friday. There is an unresolved trade war with China, a nation already contending with an economic downturn that
could dampen global demand. In the United States, there is a slump in the housing sector, with hints that the auto
industry could be next.
This week, Apple cut its revenue forecast for the first time in 16 years, citing flagging iPhone sales in China. Kevin
Flassett, the chairman of the White Flouse Council of Economic Advisers, said on CNN that Apple would not be the
only victim of tensions with Beijing.
"There are a heck of a lot of U.S. companies that have a lot of sales in China that are basically going to be watching
their earnings be downgraded next year until we get a deal with China," Mr. Flassett said.
And on Thursday, the Institute for Supply Management released a survey showing the biggest drop in
manufacturing activity since 2008. Many manufacturers blamed rising costs related to tariffs. (The index reading
of 54.1 still showed an economy in expansion.) Measures of consumer confidence have also weakened recently.
The stock market has been in the midst of its worst decline since the financial crisis.
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
"We're listening sensitively to the messages markets are sending," Mr. Powell said Friday. But investors, he said,
"are way ahead of the data."
Indeed, economists insist that there is more to celebrate than to fret over. In recent months, the unemployment
rate has been hovering near a 50-year nadir. (The jobless rate rose last month, to 3.9 percent, but largely because
new workers barreled into the labor force, suggesting that companies are luring stragglers back.) Job openings
have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, indicating confidence in their ability to find
jobs.
Wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. December's year-over-year increase
hit 3.2 percent, tying October for the biggest surge since 2009. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has
finally begun to benefit the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest pay gains.
The competition for employees has become excruciating for people like Michael Haith, the chief executive of
Teriyaki Madness, a fast-casual Japanese food chain. The restaurant needs to staff 50 new locations next year,
which means hiring up to 1,000 workers. That's not an easy feat in "a brutal market" for employers, Mr. Haith said.
He vies for workers with big brands like Burger King. Rival businesses have sent recruiters into Teriyaki Madness
stores to poach his employees with offers of higher salaries. In Colorado, where the chain is based, he's also
fending off marijuana farmers, who pay trimmers up to $17 an hour.
"Good employees can pretty much go wherever they want," Mr. Haith said. "It's really an arms race." His shops have
increased wages by $1 or $2 an hour in the last year, just to keep up. He's not alone. Food-service workers
nationwide got particularly big pay bumps last year, according to the latest federal data.
Moves like that are part of what made 2018 "a banner year for the labor market," said Julia Poliak, a labor
economist at the employment site ZipRecruiter. And the 99-month streak of job gains could get even longer. There
are still Americans who do not have jobs or are not clocking as many hours as they would like. The share of people
who have part-time positions but would prefer to work full time is higher today than it was in 2007.
And a far smaller share of the American population is working today than before the recession. That decline is
partly because of the aging of the baby boom generation. But even among people in their prime working years,
employment is down from before the recession, and far below its peak at the height of the dot-com boom.
"We are not yet at maximum employment," Ms. Poliak said.
Over all, employers added more jobs in 2018 than they did in 2017, at a monthly average of 220,000. But last year
was unique, because Congress passed a big corporate tax cut that essentially bathed a sizzling economy in lighter
fluid.
"People got used to these eye-popping job-growth numbers," said Martha Gimbel, director of research for the job-
search site Indeed. Even if hiring slows in the coming months, she said, "it doesn't mean that anything's wrong, it
just means we are heading back to normal."
But investors have to weigh that interpretation -- that the economy is peacefully drifting toward less exciting times
-- against the possibility that it is reeling toward calamity. It hasn't helped their mood (or Mr. Trump's) that the Fed
decided to raise its target lending rate four times in 2018.
And even Friday's stellar jobs numbers come with caveats. Each month's figures are revised twice, and provide
snapshots of the past, not the future. December's report does not account for workers furloughed during the
government shutdown, which began after last month's surveys were conducted.
Wall Street, of course, has the potential to create the bad news it seems to be anticipating. Concern over withering
retirement funds could prompt Americans to tamp down on spending. And business owners might start to pull
back on investments. That unholy feedback loop can begin to chip away at economic growth.
"When market sentiment has gotten this negative, investors aren't going to take one single data point and say: 'Oh,
we were wrong! Things are just fine,"' Ms. Zentner said. She added that people might hesitate to put their full faith
in the forecasts of economists. "Look how right we were leading up to the financial crisis."
Chart
MONTHLY CHANGE IN JOBS (Al); The Labor Picture in December (Source: Bureau of Labor Statisics) (A15)
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
DETAILS
Subject:	Economists; Unemployment; Investments; Recessions; Economic crisis; Employees; Economic growth; Economic conditions; Employment; Stock exchanges; Employers; Stock prices; Securities markets; Federal Reserve monetary policy
Location:	United States--US China
People:	Trump, Donald J
Company / organization:	Name: Council of Economic Advisers; NAICS: 926110; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Morgan Stanley; NAICS: 523110, 523120, 523920
URL:	https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/04/business/economy/jobs-report.html
Publication title:	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
First page:	A.l
Publication year:	2019
Publication date:	Jan 5, 2019
Section:	A
Publisher:	New York Times Company
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	General Interest Periodicals-United States
ISSN:	03624331
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	2163310520
Document URL:	https://search.proquest.com/docview/2163310520?accountid=l 4026
Copyright:	Copyright New York Times Compa ny Jan 5, 2019
Last updated:	2019-01-07
ProQuest	E fiEMEDATPn RV QFADTU DDCtni IECT POk/l O A
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
Database:
Global Newsstream
LINKS
Check SFX for Availability
Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
ProQuest
Qye
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4