Companies Hint That Investors Are Right to Fret
About Growth
Eavis, Peter; Appelbaum, Binyamin . New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New
York, N.Y]04 Jan 2019:A.1.
c^ProQuest document link
Maybe the markets were not overreacting.
With the United States economy posting solid numbers last year, the alarming signals coming out of stock and
bond markets seemed out of whack with the real world. President Trump's bellicose trade actions were a concern,
but hiring was strong and corporate earnings were surging.
But this week, companies have issued warnings about the health of their businesses that suggest investors were
right to be worried about growth. On Wednesday, Apple reduced its revenue expectations for the first time in 16
years, citing weak iPhone sales in China. On Thursday, Delta Air Lines said its fare revenue, while growing, would
fall short of the company's earlier forecast. And the American manufacturing sector slowed sharply last month,
according to a closely watched index released Thursday.
In the coming weeks, scores of companies will report their fourth-quarter results. A senior White House economics
official acknowledged that there could be a torrent of bad news from corporate America.
"It's not going to be just Apple," Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, told
CNN on Thursday. "There are a heck of a lot of U.S. companies that have a lot of sales in China that are basically
going to be watching their earnings be downgraded next year until we get a deal with China."
He seemed to suggest that was not necessarily bad, because it could help the Trump administration achieve its
goal of getting China to make trade concessions to the United States.
Those comments did little to assuage the fears of investors. The S&P 500 stock index closed down about 2.5
percent, leaving it more than 16 percent below the high it hit in September. But perhaps the most notable move
was in the market for government bonds, where investors park their money in times of stress or when they expect
the economy to slow. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell
to 2.56 percent, well below the level it reached in early November, when investors were more optimistic about the
economy.
"On days like today people say, 'Crud, I've got to buy tons of bonds,"' said Jim Vogel, a fixed income strategist at
FTN Financial. "That's driven by a large change in sentiment."
Important indicators still show the American economy is growing at a decent clip. A measure of employment in the
private sector in December, released Thursday, was higher than expected. And ahead of the Labor Department's
monthly jobs report on Friday, analysts estimated that employers added about 180,000 jobs in December.
Despite this, companies and consumers are facing challenges that could make them more cautious about
spending money. If they pull back, the economy will suffer. Apple's warning provides strong evidence that the trade
tensions with China are taking a toll. And if more indicators show the American economy stumbling, investors will
become more convinced that the Federal Reserve's recent interest rate increases are dampening activity.
Corporate profits -- and stock prices -- are highly sensitive to global economic weakness. Foreign sales accounted
for 45 percent of the revenues of companies in the S&P 500 stock index over the last five years.
There are signs of Mr. Trump's policies beginning to weigh on domestic demand, too. The Institute for Supply
FULL TEXT
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
Management said Thursday that its index of manufacturing activity fell sharply in December, the largest one-
month drop since the last recession.
The manufacturing index fell to what is still considered a healthy level, consistent with other data generally
showing that the economy remains in good shape. But the downward trend contributed to a growing sense of
unease on Wall Street about how soon the current expansion might end.
"When it has seeped into the survey it probably means it's three to five weeks old," Mr. Vogel said.
Indeed, investors are so convinced trouble is coming that they are betting the Federal Reserve will abandon its
plans to raise interest rates in 2019.
Fed officials predicted in mid-December that the central bank would raise its benchmark rate twice this year,
moving the rate into a "neutral" range that neither stimulates nor discourages economic activity. By the end of
trading Thursday, the odds of an interest-rate cut in 2019 had climbed above 50 percent.
Robert Kaplan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, reinforced those expectations, telling
Bloomberg Television that the Fed should wait at least a few months before considering any additional increases.
"We shouldn't be taking any further action until some of these uncertainties resolve themselves, and I think that
could take several months," he said on Thursday.
Mr. Kaplan, however, is not a voting member of the Fed's policymaking committee this year. The committee
comprises the Fed's board of governors and a rotating selection of five of the 12 presidents of regional reserve
banks.
An indication of the Fed's views could come Friday morning, when the Fed's chairman, Jerome FI. Powell, is
scheduled to answer questions at a public appearance with his two immediate predecessors, Janet Yellen and Ben
S. Bernanke.
"There's a belief he's willing to back off, but we haven't seen that yet," Mark Haefele, global chief investment officer
at UBS Wealth Management, said, referring to Mr. Powell. "If the Fed hikes rates in March, it'll be a mess."
And on Thursday an ominous event occurred in the government bond market. The yield on the 5-year Treasury note
fell below that of the 3-month Treasury bill. Yields are generally higher on longer-term debt. An inversion of that
pattern signals a loss of confidence in longer-term economic prospects and has often served as an early warning
of a recession.
Investors and corporate executives have experience with slowdowns in large overseas economies, but they have
not had to simultaneously grapple with the effects of a trade war. In explaining Apple's lowered sales forecast, the
company's chief executive, Tim Cook, said, "The economic environment in China has been further impacted by
rising trade tensions with the United States." Apple's stock plunged nearly 10 percent on Thursday, taking its
market value down to around $675 billion, well below the $1.1 trillion it reached as recently as October.
Mr. Trump's tariffs have raised prices on a wide range of Chinese components used by American manufacturers.
Roughly half of the companies in the I.S.M. survey said tariffs were weighing on profits, or raising costs.
Linton Crystal Technologies, a firm based in Rochester, makes specialized furnaces used to grow silicon tubes,
which are cut into wafers for semiconductors and solar panels that are sold to customers all over the world. The
work was once performed entirely in the United States. But even though they are still designed, assembled and
customized in the United States, the machines' components now are built in China.
Mr. Trump has said the goal of his trade policies was to convince companies like Linton to bring back jobs from
China. Mr. Flassett emphasized on Thursday that the Trump administration expected the domestic economy to
remain strong, and that companies focused on the United States would benefit.
But Todd Barnum, Linton Crystal's chief operating officer, said the cost of making furnaces entirely in the United
States was prohibitive. And as a result of the tariffs, the company is also moving design work to China -- a move
Mr. Barnum said would save hundreds of thousands of dollars in tariffs by reducing the need for prototypes to be
shipped to the United States.
"Our customers don't care if it was manufactured in the United States," Mr. Barnum said. "They care about the
highest quality at the lowest dollar."
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
Credit: PETER EAVIS and BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Carlos Tejada, Amie Tsang and Jack Nicas contributed
reporting.
Photograph
The New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. Indicators show the U.S. economy is still growing, but that hasn't
eased investors' fears. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (A12) CHART: The S&P 500
Index: Position of the S&P 500 index at 1 -minute intervals on Thursday. (Source: Refinitiv) (A12)
DETAILS
Subject:	Corporate profits; Manufacturing; Investments; Economic conditions; Employment; Economic statistics; Executives; Interest rates; Recessions; Government bonds; Treasury notes; Tariffs; Central banks; Economic indicators; Stock exchanges; Global economy; Securities analysis; Bond markets; Securities markets; Investors; Economic growth
Location:	United States--US China
People:	Trump, Donald J Bernanke, Ben Yellen, Janet L Cook, Timothy D
Company / organization:	Name: Council of Economic Advisers; NAICS: 926110; Name: Delta Air Lines Inc; NAICS: 481111; Name: New York Stock Exchange-NYSE; NAICS: 523210; Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111,334220, 511210
URL:	https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/03/business/world-stock-market.html
Publication title:	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
First page:	A.l
Publication year:	2019
Publication date:	Jan 4, 2019
Section:	A
Publisher:	New York Times Company
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	General Interest Periodicals-United States
ISSN:	03624331
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
ProQuest
Que
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
Document type:
News
ProQuest document ID:	2162944120
Document URL:	https://search.proquest.com/docview/2162944120?accountid=l 4026
Copyright:	Copyright New York Times Company Jan 4, 2019
Last updated:	2019-01-04
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS Check SFX for Availability	
Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
ProQuest
Qye
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4