China's Woes Spell Trouble In the Global
Marketplace
Stevenson, Alexandra; Li, Yuan; Zhong, Raymond . New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York,
N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Jan 2019: B.l.
^ProQuest document link
FULL TEXT
HONG KONG -- For years, no matter what was happening elsewhere, global companies bet billions upon billions of
dollars that China's consumers would keep spending money.
Now, just when the world economy could use their financial firepower, they are holding back, worried about the
country's slowing growth, a trade war with the United States and rising amounts of personal debt.
Zhao Zheng, 26, is among the cost-conscious consumers.
On Thursday, Mr. Zhao, a real estate agent, was browsing smartphones made by Xiaomi, a Chinese rival to Apple
that prices its handsets at a fraction of what the American tech giant charges for iPhones. He said the success in
China of Xiaomi and Miniso, a chain of low-cost variety stores, suggested that Chinese consumers were looking to
get more for their money.
"The economy," Mr. Zhao said, "is definitely very bad."
A significant pullback could have a big impact on a world looking for engines of growth, on companies that
counted on China's continuing expansion and on global investors who have long viewed Chinese consumers as a
steady source of profits.
Stock markets stumbled again on Thursday, in part over concerns that American companies and manufacturers
are starting to feel the effects from the slowdown in China and the trade war. The S&P 500 sank 2.5 percent, while
shares of Apple dropped nearly 10 percent after the company unexpectedly slashed its financial forecast, citing
disappointing iPhones sales in the country.
The rise of the Chinese consumer is not over yet, and Apple's disappointing numbers stem in part from the
company's own decisions. But the weakness at Apple followed reams of other data -- declining car sales, faltering
retail sales, a slumping property market, a tougher job market --that signal Chinese consumers may be losing their
once unshakable confidence.
The sagging confidence could undermine China's efforts to redirect its economy and spur growth.
The Chinese government hopes consumers will become a greater source of economic growth as the country's
longtime reliance on government-sponsored infrastructure projects and old-line industries like steel and cement
pays ever-smaller dividends. In recent years, Beijing has rolled out a huge social safety net, tax breaks and other
incentives to get people to spend more of their own money on the trappings of middle-class life.
The spending slowdown in China could be a worrying sign for many of America's biggest companies, too, at a time
when their profits and stock prices are under pressure.
Greater China -- a region that includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan -- is Apple's third-largest market
after the United States and Europe, accounting for $52 billion in annual sales in the company's most recent fiscal
year. General Motors, through local joint ventures, sells more cars in China than it does in the United States. Eight
percent of Procter &Gamble's total sales in 2017 came from Greater China.
Other companies are also feeling the pinch. China's auto market, the biggest in the world, saw sales fall during the
first 11 months of last year. Sales of all smartphones fell by 13 percent in the third quarter of 2018.
ProQuest
Qye
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
Chinese consumers continued to spend relatively briskly during other recent slowdowns, and they could still help
get the country's economy back on track. But they have reasons to be reticent now.
By many measures, the country's growth has slowed because of government efforts to wean the economy off a
heavy reliance on borrowing as well as other policies that have shaken the confidence of the country's
entrepreneurs.
"China is at a turning point in its economy," said Andrew Collier, the founder of research firm Orient Capital
Research. "They've basically been on a debt-fueled binge for a decade." He added, "It's difficult to turn the ship
from industry to consumer at a time of rough waters."
For many people, circumstances have changed.
China has too many apartments that home buyers do not want, depressing a property market that is the largest
source of wealth for Chinese households. The stock market lost around a quarter of its value in 2018.
And although they have a long way to go to catch up to Americans, Chinese households are laboring under
growing amounts of debt. Unorthodox Chinese lenders like the online shadow-banking networks known as peer-to-
peer lenders are stumbling, giving consumers fewer places to borrow more.
Declining business confidence, rising labor costs and the trade war with the United States also appear to be
hurting the job market.
China does not disclose reliable unemployment data. But a recent survey by Mr. Collier of job postings, recruitment
ads, numbers of applicants on recruitment websites and interviews with corporate managers suggested labor
demand had weakened significantly. Hiring demand in import and export industries has been hit especially hard,
falling 53 percent in the third quarter compared with a year earlier, the survey found.
Against that backdrop, it is not surprising that many consumers are looking for ways to spend less.
Wang Xiaochuan, who made about $145,000 a year as a pharmaceutical sales representative in Yantai in 2015,
now makes less than a third of that thanks to a tightening of regulations on the drug industry. He has cut back his
spending, buying Clarks shoes instead of the more expensive Ecco brand, or Coach goods rather than Louis
Vuitton.
"I'm hearing a lot more bad news about the economy than good news now," he said.
In a country with an aspirational culture that for decades has encouraged people to get rich, Apple has long held a
special place. Having a new iPhone meant its owner had made it. Seven years ago, the release of a new iPhone set
off scuffles in front of an Apple store in Beijing.
[Video: A crowd threw eggs at an Apple store in Beijing in 2012 after it failed to open the day a new iPhone was
released. Watch on YouTube.]
But price increases have put the iPhone beyond the reach of more and more Chinese buyers. An iPhone XR starts
at 6,499 yuan, or about $950, just over two and a half months' worth of disposable income for the average Chinese
person.
Rumors once circulated about young people selling kidneys to buy an iPhone. Now, the online joke goes, it would
cost two kidneys.
On the last day of 2018, William Tan, a 30-year-old university teacher in the southern city of Nanning, replaced his
iPhone 7 with a phone made by Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. Although the Huawei phone cost
more than $700, about a month's salary for him, it was still more than $200 cheaper than the base iPhone XR. He
had used an iPhone 5, 6 and 7. But when his iPhone 7 broke down, he found he could no longer afford the latest
iPhone.
The Huawei phone, he said, works fairly smoothly and takes better photos than the iPhone.
"I won't choose Apple again at this price range," he said.
Chinese consumers are by no means done with certain discretionary purchases. Spending on movie tickets and
services remains strong, economists said.
But the consumer slowdown could worsen if Beijing does not address its economic problems.
"The question is whether China can stabilize economic growth when it is facing economic headwinds," said Wei Li,
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
senior China economist at Standard Chartered.
"If the labor market does worsen in 2019 or if financial conditions don't improve, if the stock market remains low,
all this could weigh on consumer confidence," Mr. Li said.
Given the uncertainty, many Chinese spenders will most likely continue to scrimp.
Wu Yan, a tech company worker who was looking at Xiaomi phones on Thursday afternoon, said he had also tried
Apple and Huawei phones and had decided they were not much different from one another. What matters, he said,
was the apps, and they work the same from phone to phone.
But Mr. Wu, 40, also said many middle-class Chinese people like him had reached a stage where their work was
stable, their income was secure and they no longer needed to show off their spending power. His computer at
home? It's four or five years old now, but it still works fine.
"Now we spend just to fulfill our needs," he said.
Credit: ALEXANDRA STEVENSON, LI YUAN and RAYMOND ZHONG; Alexandra Stevenson and Li Yuan reported
from Hong Kong, and Raymond Zhong from Beijing.
Photograph
Garment workers at a factory in Guangzhou, China. Declining business confidence, rising labor costs and the trade
war with the United States appear to be hurting the country's job market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAM YIK FEI FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (B3)
DETAILS
Subject:	Corporate profits; Economic growth; Consumers; Labor costs; Smartphones; Middle class; Securities markets; Stock exchanges; International trade; Global economy; Consumer credit; Trade relations; Economic conditions
Location:	United States--US China Hong Kong Taiwan Europe
Company / organization:	Name: Procter &Gamble Co; NAICS: 311919, 322291,325412, 325611,325612, 325620; Name: YouTube Inc; NAICS: 519130; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 33341 5, 336111,336390; Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111,334220, 511210
URL:	https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/03/business/china-consumer-economy-apple- iphone.html
Publication title:	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
First page:	B.l
Publication year:	2019
Publication date:	Jan 4, 2019
Section:	B
Publisher:	New York Times Company
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
ProQuest
Que
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
Publication subject:	General Interest Periodicals-United States
ISSN:	03624331
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	2162944036
Document URL:	https://search.proquest.com/docview/2162944036?accountid=14026
Copyright:	Copyright New York Times Company Jan 4, 2019
Last updated:	2019-01-04
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS
Check SFX for Availability
Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
ProQuest
Qye
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4