Stocks Jump as Powell Suggests a Cut in Rates
Smialek, Jeanna; Phillips, Matt. New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York,
N.Y]05 June 2019: B.l.
c^ProQuest document link
CHICAGO -- The Federal Reserve chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said on Tuesday that the central bank was prepared
to act to sustain the economic expansion if President Trump's trade war weakened the economy. His remarks sent
stocks soaring as investors predicted a cut in interest rates.
U.S. economic outlook and, as always, we will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion, with a strong labor
market and inflation near our symmetric 2 percent objective."
Mr. Powell did not explicitly say that the Fed would cut interest rates, but his comments sent a signal that the
central bank was watching Mr. Trump's trade wars warily, ready to fend off any economic damage. While the Fed
has been closely monitoring the effects of Mr. Trump's trade war on the economy, Mr. Powell's comments were his
first since the president escalated his dispute by threatening tariffs on all Mexican goods.
"He's making a point to say to the markets that 'We can act if necessary,"' said John Briggs, a bond market
strategist at NatWest Markets in Stamford, Conn. "I think the markets are taking some comfort, at least, by the idea
that he's moving in the right direction."
Mr. Powell's remarks sparked a rally on Wall Street. Equity markets -- which had risen ahead of the remarks -- piled
up the gains in the hours after his statement. The S&P 500 rose 2.1 percent, its second-best daily gain of the year.
The S&P is up 11.8 percent this year.
The rally was broad based, with shares of large technology companies, financial institutions and industrial firms all
rising more than 2 percent. The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose more than 2 percent. An index of
semiconductor manufacturers rose more than 4 percent.
The rebound in stock markets coaxed some investors out of the safety of government bonds, pushing prices down
and yields -- which move in the opposite direction -- up. The rise in yields reversed some of a sharp decline in
recent days that had reflected growing investor concern about the outlook for economic growth and inflation. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note was 2.12 percent at 3 p.m., according to Bloomberg data.
But in signaling that it is prepared to limit economic damage from the trade war, the Fed could perpetuate the
feedback loop that has developed among financial markets, the central bank and Mr. Trump -- and could embolden
the president to continue his fight.
When Mr. Trump's trade threats have roiled markets, the markets have, in turn, looked to the Fed for support. And
when such support materializes -- as it did in January when the Fed turned away from plans to lift rates -- stocks
rebound, allowing the administration to continue to pursue its policy goals.
The latest stock market bump could give the president comfort that he can continue waging his fights with two of
America's largest trading partners -- China and Mexico -- without derailing the economic recovery.
Mr. Trump, speaking in London on Tuesday, said he was ready to punish Mexico with tariffs next week for failing to
curb the flow of migrants across the southern border.
"I think it's more likely that the tariffs go on, and we'll probably be talking during the time that the tariffs are on, and
they're going to be paid," Mr. Trump said. The president has threatened to increase those tariffs to 25 percent by
FULL TEXT
"We do not know how or when these issues will be resolved," Mr. Powell said of the United States' trade disputes
with Mexico, China and other nations. "We are closely monitoring the implications of these developments for the
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
October, a move that could hurt the North American economy.
Investors, bond markets and Wall Street analysts have grown increasingly alarmed by the potential slowdown in
growth that could result from Mr. Trump's tariffs on China and Mexico. The worsening outlook for trade over the
past month has been accompanied by signs of weakness in global markets. Prices of key industrial commodities
such as crude oil and copper have slipped.
After hitting a high on April 30, the S&P 500 was down nearly 7 percent through the close of trading on Monday.
Yields on safe government bonds had tumbled worldwide. And yields on some long-term Treasury securities are
now below those of short-term bills, an unusual occurrence known as an "inversion of the yield curve," which, in the
past, has heralded recession.
Against that backdrop, investors have grown increasingly expectant that the Fed will abandon its "patient" stance
and move to cut interest rates in the coming months. Fed funds futures markets are now placing a probability of
more than 60 percent on the Fed reducing interest rates at its meeting at the end of July, according to Bloomberg
data. Earlier in May, the market was putting less than 20 percent odds on such a move.
Taken with his colleagues' recent statements, Mr. Powell's speech signals that the Fed is not yet ready to lock in
coming rate cuts. Robert S. Kaplan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said in an interview that he
still favored patience on rates, especially because at least some of the trade tensions might be resolved.
"I'm concerned, and I'm watching them very vigilantly, but I'm also mindful that some of these factors could
change, and they could change relatively soon," he said on the sidelines of a conference in Chicago. "I just want to
be patient and give it a little time and a little breathing room."
Charles Evans, the head of Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, and Mary Daly, the head of the Federal Reserve Bank
of San Francisco, have also called for continuing the Fed's pause in adjusting rates.
Officials are watching trade warily, however. In a speech on Monday, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
St. Louis, James Bullard, said a cut in interest rates "may be warranted soon" to stoke inflation and "provide some
insurance in case of a sharper-than-expected slowdown" in growth.
"The main story from Powell for near-term policy, in my view, is that this debate about whether the next move is a
hike or a cut is effectively over," Neil Dutta, an economist at Renaissance Macro Research, wrote in a note to
clients after the speech. "They are no longer holding open the possibility of a hike."
The president's actions on trade have left the Fed in a tough spot. Growth remains above its longer-run trend and
the job market is strong, which would argue against rate cuts. Plus, trade disputes could be resolved quickly,
removing a major obstacle to continued expansion. But inflation is already low, and if a global slowdown provides
a drag on the United States economy, Fed rates are still historically low -- which could argue for quick, decisive
action, since the central bank's recession-fighting ammunition is limited.
Mr. Trump himself has been pushing the Fed to cut rates, even contrasting the central bank with China's.
"China is adding great stimulus to its economy while at the same time keeping interest rates low," Mr. Trump said
in a tweet on April 30. Fie said that the economy would go up like a "rocket" if the central bank cut rates. "Our
Federal Reserve has incessantly lifted interest rates, even though inflation is very low, and instituted a very big
dose of quantitative tightening."
That also raises an optical problem for the central bank, which is independent of the White Flouse. A move to cut
rates could look political, even if it arose from a change in the economic landscape. Officials have reiterated time
and again that they will make policy decisions based on the economic outlook, and that politics will not influence
them in either direction.
After the Fed raised rates nine times since 2015, investors late last year began to grow concerned that monetary
policy might be too tight, potentially risking the start of a recession. That helped send stock markets sharply lower,
with the S&P 500 losing nearly 14 percent in the last three months of 2018.
Then, in early January, the central bank abruptly shifted its tone away from previous plans to continue lifting
interest rates this year, and instead emphasized that it would remain patient, flexible and attuned to signals being
sent by financial markets.
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
Some analysts question whether fresh Fed cuts would stimulate a similar reaction now. A decade into an
economic expansion, lower interest rates might not measurably improve the outlook for corporate profits, the
economy or the stock market, they say.
"This is just the reality of it," said Michael Wilson, the United States equity strategist for Morgan Stanley. "The Fed
has done everything they can do to extend the cycle. And it might not be enough."
Credit: By JEANNA SMIALEK and MATT PFULLIPS; Jeanna Smialek reported from Chicago, and Matt Phillips from
New York.
Photograph
The Federal Reserve chairman, Jerome FI. Powell, is monitoring the trade war. (B5)
DETAILS
Subject:	Interest rates; Recessions; Economic growth; Central banks; Stock exchanges; Stock prices; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Trade relations
Location:	United States--US
People:	Trump, Donald J Powell, Jerome
URL:	https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/04/business/economy/powell-fed-trade- wars.html
Publication title:	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
Pages:	B.l
Publication year:	2019
Publication date:	Jun 5, 2019
Section:	B
Publisher:	New York Times Company
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	General Interest Periodicals-United States
ISSN:	03624331
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	2234886032
ProQuest
Que
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
Document URL:	htt ps://search. proquest. com/docview/2234886032?accountid=l 4026
Copyright:	Copyright New York Times Company Jun 5, 2019
Last updated:	2019-06-05
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS	
Check SFX for Availability	
Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
ProQuest
Qye
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4