Big Loss for Market, and Fear It'll Have a Lasting
Impact
Phillips, Matt. New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]14 May 2019:
A.1.
c^ProQuest document link
Investors are dealing with a painful new reality: The trade war between the United States and China could last
potential fallout to economic growth and corporate profits. Bonds and commodities, too, flashed warnings of a
slowdown.
The stock losses have brought an end to a recent calm that had settled over Wall Street. For months, investors had
assumed that the trade war, a major hazard for the global economy, would end soon. Just weeks ago, the S&P 500
reached a record high.
That illusion has been shattered, as concerns mount about slowing growth and rising costs. China said on Monday
that it would increase tariffs on nearly $60 billion of goods, in response to a similar move last week by the Trump
administration.
The S&P 500 fell 2.4 percent on Monday. It was the American stock benchmark's worst day since early January. In
all, the S&P 500 is down 4.6 percent in May.
The drop continued early Tuesday as the trading day began in Asia, with stocks opening mostly lower. But futures
markets suggested Wall Street would open higher.
Companies in trade-sensitive sectors like agriculture and semiconductor manufacturing were particularly hard hit.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 3.4 percent, its worst decline in 2019.
The selling has come even as the American economy continues to show significant momentum. The economy
expanded at a robust 3.2 percent annual rate in the first three months of the year. In April, unemployment fell to 3.6
percent, the lowest level since 1969.
But the declines in the financial markets raise the prospect of a negative feedback loop: As worries about the
economy send stock prices lower, the weakness could prompt concern among the executives whose decisions
drive economic growth.
"The longer the market turmoil continues, the bigger a hit it can have on economic activity," said Kathy Bostjancic,
chief United States financial economist at Oxford Economics, a research firm.
The pace of economic growth has slowed in much of the world. On April 9, the International Monetary Fund
reduced its growth forecast for 2019 to 3.3 percent, which would make it among the slowest years of growth in the
past decade.
In adjusting its forecast, the fund cited, in part, the tensions between China and the United States. It also said it
expected about 70 percent of the global economy to slow this year.
Economists say further rounds of tariffs from both China and the United States will most likely slow the world's
economy even more. As both sides take new measures, it will be hard for businesses and consumers to avoid the
fallout.
Now that the Trump administration has raised tariffs on some $200 billion of Chinese goods to 25 percent, its next
FULL TEXT
indefinitely.
That anxiety spread across the stock markets on Monday, as investors around the world tried to divine the
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
major escalation could cover nearly every product imported from China. The White House is weighing levies on
another $300 billion of imports that includes a range of consumer products, from cellphones to computers and
toys, that have so far been largely unscathed by the fight.
If consumers are forced to pay for those increases, they could be forced to cut back on spending. If the increases
are absorbed by businesses, that could prove to be a drag on profit growth.
On Monday, concern that the broader tariff war could envelop parts of the economy that have so far been sheltered
from the fight became evident in the shares of small companies, which fell even further than the broad S&P 500.
These smaller companies, which often have thinner profit margins and less negotiating power with suppliers and
customers, could be poorly positioned to handle the next round of tariff increases.
"The escalation of tariffs is creating these problems that corporate America is going to have to work around," said
Lori Calvasina, head of United States equity strategy at RBC Capital Markets. "It's just going to be tougher for the
smaller guys."
For now, stock investors continue to sit on sizable gains. The S&P 500 remains up more than 12 percent in 2019.
But the sell-off also shows Wall Street is factoring in the prospect that the trade fight drags on, even as it closely
monitors comments from officials in Beijing and Washington.
On Monday, anxiety about the economy appeared in other financial markets too.
Prices dropped for soybeans and copper, both of which are sensitive to global growth and trade. Interest rates rose
in corporate bond markets, an indication that investors were seeking higher premiums in response to the increased
risks of a worsening trade fight.
In the stock market, the damage required less interpretation. Shares of companies particularly dependent on trade
with China, including semiconductor makers that rely on production networks in the country, fared badly.
Apple, which counts China as a major market for the sale of its iPhone and other devices and leans heavily on
Chinese suppliers to produce them, fell 5.8 percent.
In addition to the effects of the trade fight, Apple shares were weighed down after the Supreme Court on Monday
allowed a large antitrust class action to move forward against the company.
Boeing, one of the largest exporters in the United States, dropped 4.9 percent. Wynn Resorts, which is heavily
reliant on casino operations in Macau that cater to gamblers from mainland China, fell 6.2 percent.
[Read more about China's response here.]
There are reasons for investors to expect the United States economy to withstand the shock of an escalating trade
war. Fears about the impact of a trade war and economic slowdown rocked stock markets late last year, only for
major benchmarks to recover just as quickly.
Hiring in the United States continues, and corporate profits are expected to continue rising after a year of tax cut-
fueled growth.
Most critically, the Federal Reserve had abruptly pivoted away from its previous plans to keep lifting interest rates,
revving up risk-taking in the process.
Those factors -- the Fed in particular -- made for a spring-loaded start to the year, with the S&P 500 rocketing more
than 17 percent higher through April. That steady glide higher may also explain some of the sharpness of the
downturn in recent days, as it left the market overdue for a pullback.
"We were very overdue for one," Ms. Calvasina of RBC Capital Markets said. "We basically did a year's worth of
gains in four months' time."
Chart
S&P 500 since its peak (Source: Refinitiv)
DETAILS
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
Subject:	International trade; Profit margins; Investments; Interest rates; Tariffs; Economic growth; Consumers; Economic conditions; Securities markets; Stock exchanges; Global economy; Trade negotiation; Trade policy; Trade relations; Stock prices; Losses; Investors; Economic impact
Location:	United States--US China
Company / organization:	Name: RBC Capital Markets; NAICS: 523110; Name: International Monetary Fund- IMF; NAICS: 522298; Name: Wynn Resorts Ltd; NAICS: 721120; Name: Boeing Co; NAICS: 336411,336413, 336414
URL:	https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/13/business/global-markets.html
Publication title:	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
Pages:	A.l
Publication year:	2019
Publication date:	May 14, 2019
Section:	A
Publisher:	New York Times Company
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	General Interest Periodicals-United States
ISSN:	03624331
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	2224208074
Document URL:	htt ps://search. proquest. com/docview/2224208074?accountid=l 4026
Copyright:	Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2019
Last updated:	2019-05-14
Database: LINKS	Global Newsstream
ProQuest	E fiEMEDATPn RV QFADTU DDCtni IECT POk/l O A
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
Check SFX for Availability
Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
ProQuest
Qye
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4