2/27/2020
Coronavirus Drives Stocks Down for 6th Day and Into Correction - The New York Times
§>l)e;NctU fjork Sillies https://nyti.ms/32x8Kn7
Coronavirus Drives Stocks Down for 6th
Day and Into Correction
The virus, which has now spread to 47 countries, has put pressure on businesses and supply chains
around the world.
By Matt Phillips
Feb. 27, 2020 Updated 5:50 p.m. ET
Global markets tumbled for a sixth consecutive day on Thursday, dragging down the S&P 500 more
than 10 percent in just a week, reflecting rising fears over the coronavirus that is spreading quickly
around the world.
The S&P 500 fell 4.4 percent on Thursday, the worst single day slide for the market since August 2011.
The index is on pace for its worst weekly performance since the 2008 financial crisis. Stocks in Europe
and Asia were also hard hit on Thursday.
The sell-off came after public health officials in the United States and Germany said new patients in
each country had no known connection to others with the illness, a development that could complicate
efforts to track the virus. Cases of the virus have appeared in at least 47 countries.
The speed of the market slump has been stunning, with the S&P 500 falling more than 10 percent from
its Feb. 19 high, a drop that Wall Street labels a correction to suggest the decline is more significant
than a few days of downbeat trading.
The last time stocks in the United States fell that much was late 2018, when investors worried that the
trade war and rising interest rates might tip the U.S. economy into a recession. The Dow Jones
industrial average also fell into a correction on Thursday, as did shares in London.
On Wednesday night, President Trump directly addressed the outbreak, putting Vice President Mike
Pence in charge of the government’s response and saying “we’re very, very ready for this.” While Mr.
Trump acknowledged the potential economic fallout of the outbreak, he said woes at the aerospace
giant Boeing, a strike last year at General Motors and the Fed’s reluctance to slash interest rates had
done more to hurt the economy.
The Coronavirus Outbreak
Answers to your most common questions:
Updated Feb. 26, 2020
• What is a coronavirus?
It is a novel virus named for the crownlike spikes that protrude from its surface.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/27/business/stock-market-coronavirus.html
1/3
2/27/2020
Coronavirus Drives Stocks Down for 6th Day and Into Correction - The New York Times
The coronavirus can infect both animals and people and can cause a range of
respiratory illnesses from the common cold to more dangerous conditions like
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS.
• How worried should I be?
New outbreaks in Asia, Europe and the Middle East are renewing fears of a
global pandemic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned this
week that Americans should brace for the likelihood that the virus will spread to
READ MORE v
But not long after his news conference, health officials reported that a person in Northern California
had become sick despite not being exposed to anyone known to be infected with the coronavirus.
Doctors said the patient had to wait days to be tested because of restrictive federal criteria.
Officials around the world have struggled to contain the spread of the virus. Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe on Thursday asked all of Japan’s schools to close for a month. The country joined China and
Mongolia in shuttering schools nationwide over the epidemic.
Health officials in Germany reacted aggressively after a man with no known connection to anyone
with the coronavirus tested positive. They closed schools in the community where he lived and
reached out to hundreds of people who took part in a carnival celebration over the weekend where the
man was also present, urging them to stay home for two weeks.
Even if the United States doesn’t adopt such extreme measures, an outbreak could prompt a serious
shift in consumer behavior, hitting the bedrock of the American economy.
https://w\\'w.nytimes.com/2020/02/27/business/stock-market-coronavirus.htmI
2/3
2/27/2020
Coronavirus Drives Stocks Down for 6th Day and Into Correction - The New York Times
A trader walks off the floor of the New York Stock Exchange after the closing bell on
Thursday. Jeenah Moon for The New York Times
“To the degree that consumers change their behavior — so they stop going out to eat, they don’t take
the vacation, they cancel the business trip — that consumption, that spending, personal consumption
is 68 percent of G.D.P.,” said Scott Clemons, chief investment strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman.
He added: “That moves it beyond the sphere of ‘people feel bad because their 401(k)s are down’ and
into the sphere of economic reality”
The collapse in investor confidence spread far beyond stocks. Crude oil fell more than 4 percent, as
investors weighed the chance of growing economic paralysis related to travel restrictions, factory
shutdowns and other measures to stop the outbreak.
Bond markets broadcast deep pessimism about the economy, as money flooded into Treasury
markets, pushing prices sharply higher, and yields — which move in the opposite direction — to once-
unthinkable depths. That drop, in part, reflects investors’ expectations that the Federal Reserve may
have to cut interest rates to bolster the economy.
Prices for junk bonds, and even safer corporate debt, fell.
“Stocks and bonds say we’re doomed,” wrote Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union
Bank, in a research note on Thursday. “Anyone who has a better idea for what lies ahead please let us
know because right now the direction ahead for the economy is straight down.”
On Thursday, analysts at Goldman Sachs predicted that companies in the S&P 500 would generate no
profit growth as a result of the crisis, because of a “severe decline in Chinese economic activity,”
disruption in the supply chain for American companies and a slowdown in the U.S. economy.
Microsoft was down 7 percent after the company said on Wednesday that its sales in the current
quarter would be lower because of a disruption to its supply chain. Anheuser-Busch InBev on
Thursday forecast a steep drop in quarterly profit. Its shares fell 9 percent.
Companies have also scaled back travel. The French cosmetics giant L’Oreal suspended all business
travel for its 80,000 employees until the end of March. Nestle, the giant Swiss food company, said it
would suspend all international business trips for its 290,000 workers until mid-March.
In Europe, the FTSE 100 in Britain, the CAC 40 in France and the DAX in Germany were all more than
3 percent lower on Thursday. Asian markets closed the day largely down, though shares in China
bucked the general trend, with Shanghai rising 0.1 percent.
Kevin Granville and Katie Robertson contributed reporting.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/27/business/stock-market-coronavims.html
3/3