2/25/2020
Stocks Tumble Again as Fears of Coronavirus Grip Markets - The New York Times
§£lje £CeU» Stork ^irnes https:// nyti. ms/2 HQ DzcW
Stocks Tumble Again as Fears of
Coronavirus Grip Markets
The spread of the new coronavirus has rattled investors in both the stock and bond markets.
By Matt Phillips
Feb. 25, 2020 Updated 4:05 p.m. ET
Worried investors continued to dump stocks Tuesday in response to the threat of the
spreading coronavirus outbreak, as American officials warned that it was only a matter of
time before the infection spreads to the United States.
A day after its worst one-day slide in two years, the S&P 500 was down about 3 percent by
Tuesday afternoon, a decline that put the blue chip index firmly in the red for the year.
For weeks, American investors had largely shrugged off the economic risks of the virus even
as it disrupted global supply chains and shut down factories in China. As recently as last
Wednesday, the S&P 500 was at a record high. But since then, growing outbreaks in Europe
and elsewhere in Asia have raised fears that the virus will continue to drag on the global
economy.
Monday was the worst day for American markets since February 2018, with the S&P 500
falling 3.4 percent after officials in Italy and South Korea reported new infections.
On Tuesday, the tumble continued. Declines in the S&P 500 were led by energy, industrial
and materials shares, sectors of the market closely tied to Chinese demand for raw
materials.
The Coronavirus Outbreak
What do you need to know? Start here.
Updated Feb. 25, 2020
• What is a Coronavirus?
It is a novel virus named for the crown-like spikes that protrude from its surface.
The coronavirus can infect both animals and people, and can cause a range of
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/25/business/stock-markets-covid-l 9.html?action=click&module=Top Stories&pgtype=Homepage
1/3
2/25/2020
Stocks Tumble Again as Fears of Coronavirus Grip Markets - The New York Times
respiratory illnesses from the common cold to more dangerous conditions like
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS.
• How contagious is the virus?
According to preliminary research, it seems moderately infectious, similar to
SARS, and is probably transmitted through sneezes, coughs and contaminated
READ MORE V
The sell-off accelerated after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned
Americans that they should brace for the likelihood that the coronavirus will spread to
communities in the United States.
“It’s not so much of a question of if this will happen in this country any more, but a question
of when this will happen,” said Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for
Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. “We are asking the American public to prepare for
the expectation that this might be bad.”
As stocks dropped sharply, investors moved into the safety of government bonds, pushing
their prices up and yields down. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to a record low, a
signal that investors expect growth in the United States to slow.
Investors could face more wild rides as the coronavirus outbreak spreads further, crimping
consumer demand and snarling the world’s supply chains.
“The emergence of a large number of new cases in Italy has materially increased the risk of
a sharp drop in consumer and business confidence in Europe, and potentially North America
too if more cases are confirmed there in the coming days,” Mark Haefele, the chief
investment officer at UBS’s global wealth management operations, said in an investment
report.
The growing outbreaks of the virus in Europe, Asia and the Middle East have stoked fears
that its spread will be difficult to contain, and market analysts in recent days have issued
new warnings that the outbreak could drag down economies around the globe.
Economists at JPMorgan Chase wrote that they expected global growth to slow to a 1
percent annual pace in the first three months of the year, which would be the weakest
quarter of the economic expansion that is now more than a decade long. In the United
States, the general estimate for first-quarter domestic growth has slipped.
Markets around the globe have been affected this week.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/25/business/stock-markets-covid-l 9.html?action=click&module=Top Stories&pgtype=Flomepage
2/3
2/25/2020
Stocks Tumble Again as Fears of Coronavirus Grip Markets - The New York Times
Germany’s DAX and Britain’s FTSE100 each fell nearly 2 percent on Tuesday, a day after
European markets had their worst drop since 2016.
Shares also fell in most markets in Asia, led by Japan, which was closed for a holiday on
Monday. The Nikkei 225 index tumbled more than 3.3 percent on Tuesday, although most
other Asian markets fell at a much slower pace.
South Korea, which is facing the world’s second-largest outbreak of the virus outside China,
was the bright spot: Share prices rebounded on Hiesday morning after enduring one of the
sharpest drops of any large market around the world the day before. They ended up 1.2
percent.
Stock markets in commodity-exporting countries continued to suffer losses as traders worry
that demand for their goods may decline if more countries suffer the kind of bruising
deceleration in economic activity that China has endured. Australia’s stock market fell 1.6
percent on Tuesday.
The price of a barrel of benchmark American crude oil also dropped. Oil prices have dropped
about 17 percent this year, as investors have anticipated the weekslong immobilization of
China’s economy, the world’s second largest.
China consumes more crude and commodities than any other country. Prices of those
commodities have also fallen, dragging down the share prices of mining, chemical and
fertilizer companies.
Keith Bradsher and Jeanna Smialek contributed reporting.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/25/business/stock-markets-covid-l 9.html?action=click&module=Top Stories&pgtype=Homepage
3/3