3/3/2020
Stocks Tumble After the Fed Cuts Rates - The New York Times
®IjC JfeUl Jlork ©tncs https://nyti.ms/2TABsPU
Stocks Tumble After the Fed Cuts Rates
The drop in stocks and bond yields suggests investors think the Federal Reserves interest-rate cut won’t
contain the economic impact of the coronavirus.
By The New York Times
March 3, 2020 Updated 5:27 p.m. ET
Here’s what you need to know:
•	What the bond market is telling us.
•	Other economic powers vow to fight the crisis.
•	Two words creep into outbreak response: fiscal stimulus.
•	Why the Fed cut interest rates.
•	Could the coronavirus outbreak cause a recession?
The Federal Reserve delivered the emergency rate cut investors had been clamoring for at 10 a.m. on
Tuesday. The market rally that followed lasted about 15 minutes.
By the end of trading on Tuesday, stocks were sharply lower and bond yields had plummeted to previously
unthinkable lows, suggesting that there’s little the Federal Reserve can do to keep the coronavirus from
hammering the U.S. economy.
The S&P 500 fell about 2.8 percent, undoing much of Monday’s 4.6 percent surge. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note dropped below 1 percent for a time.
Both moves suggest investors see growing threats to the outlook for economic growth and corporate
profits over the next 10 months.
“In the short term, there’s only so much that the Fed can actually do because you’re dealing with a totally
exogenous variable that it has no control over: the virus,” said Julian Emanuel, chief equity and
derivatives strategist at the brokerage firm BTIG.
After shrugging off risks related to the spreading coronavirus for weeks, investors in the United States are
now fixated on every development in the outbreak as the number of cases outside of China has grown.
The key question is how much measures to contain the drift of the outbreak — from travel bans, to
canceled conferences, to the potential for school closures — could hurt consumer spending in developed
nations, as global supply chains in China continue to struggle.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/business/stock-market-today.html
1/5
3/3/2020
Stocks Tumble After the Fed Cuts Rates - The New York Times
Economists around the globe sharply downgraded their economic growth expectations for the year.
JPMorgan Chase economists and market analysts estimated that the low interest rates in the Treasury
market suggest investors are pricing in a 90 percent chance of recession, according to a research note
published Tuesday afternoon.
In the face of the growing threat to the economy, the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates by half a point
on Tuesday, saying in a statement that the eoronavirus posed “evolving risks to economic activity.”
What the bond market is telling us.
10-year Treasury bond
4:59 PM ET 03/03/2020
For the past week, long-term government bonds have been flashing a warning.
Yields on these bonds have fallen as global investors have rushed to safety. U.S. government bonds are
considered the safest financial investment you can make — the security blanket of choice for investors
worldwide — and when investors are buying these bonds, their yields fall.
The drop in bond yields is a highly visible sign that investors believe economic growth in the United States
and around the world would decelerate quickly.
Get an informed guide to the global outbreak with our daily eoronavirus newsletter.
“Global G.D.R is getting clobbered,” said Steven Rieehiuto, chief U.S. economist at Mizuho Securities USA.
“That’s what people are focusing on, and that’s what the bond market is focusing on.”
https: // www. nytimes. com/2020/03/03/business/stock-market- today html
2/5
3/3/2020
Stocks Tumble After the Fed Cuts Rates - The New York Times
But there’s a silver lining: Treasury yields are the foundation for all sorts of borrowing costs, so, all else
being equal, the drop in yields should help support the U.S. economy as they filter through to consumers
and corporations over the next year.
Mortgage rates could fall to new levels of affordability. Interest rates on car loans could decrease.
Corporate borrowing could get cheaper.
Other economic powers vow to fight the crisis.
Before the Fed’s announcement, central bankers and political leaders of the world’s economic powers on
Tuesday expressed their resolve to combat economic damage from the coronavirus, but stopped short of
promising interest rate cuts or other immediate rescue measures.
The joint statement of solidarity showed that the leaders of the so-called G7 nations, which also includes
Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan, are capable of cooperation. But the statement fell short
of the more aggressive action that investors have been hoping for and that many economists say is needed
to prevent the virus outbreak from undermining global growth.
Earlier Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of Australia cut its interest rates to a record low, while Malaysia’s Bank
Negara cut its key lending rate for a second time this year.
Two words creep into outbreak response: fiscal stimulus.
As governments seek to contain the economic damage from the coronavirus outbreak, prominent
economists and some lawmakers are starting to wrestle with how the government might use its power to
tax and spend to mitigate the economic pain.
The attention to fiscal policy reflects the little room remaining for the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates.
The complexities of responding to a pandemic and the desire of lawmakers to show they are getting
something done in an election year could strengthen the case for a fiscal boost.
Talk of fiscal stimulus is still in the earliest phases, reflecting the suddenness with which signs have
emerged that the new coronavirus will hurt the economy. Those who closely track the machinations of
Washington believe there will be a meaningful push for some fiscal action if the economic outlook
deteriorates.
Why the Fed cut interest rates.
The list of reasons that the Federal Reserve should not have cut interest rates on Tuesday is long.
Lower rates will do nothing to address the cause of potential economic distress, namely supply disruptions
and halted economic activity caused by the coronavirus outbreak. It comes as the Fed is already low on
firepower to offset an economic slump, because of perpetually low interest rates.
But the thinking behind the decision is not complicated. It was a judgment that just because you don’t have
the right tools for a job doesn’t mean you shouldn’t use the tools that you do have to try to make things
better.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/business/stock-market-today.html
3/5
3/3/2020
Stocks Tumble After the Fed Cuts Rates - The New York Times
The Fed cannot stop supply chains from being disrupted or certain types of business activity, like travel
and tourism, from freezing up. What rate cuts can do, however, is try to help prevent those disruptions
from spiraling into a recession.
Could the coronavirus outbreak cause a recession?
The global outbreak has caused upheaval in stock markets and disrupted supply chains around the world.
But so far, there have been few signs of widespread economic damage, at least in the United States.
Economists say a pandemic could clearly cause a recession in the United States. But for that to happen, the
effects would have to spread beyond manufacturing, travel and other sectors directly affected by the
disease. The real sign of trouble, said Tara Sinclair, an economist at George Washington University, would
be if companies with no direct connection to the virus started reporting a slump in business.
“The key is to watch big macro numbers rather than obsessively watching things tied to virus and supply
chains,” Ms. Sinclair said. “If people aren’t getting haircuts anymore, that’s a bad sign.”
A recession is more than just a dip in gross domestic product. As most economists think of it, a recession
involves a cycle that feeds on itself: Job cuts lead to less income, which leads to less spending, which leads
to more job cuts.
What if the boss tells you to stay home?
Some companies have already taken precautions like limiting travel to affected countries or big
international conferences. Others have asked employees to stay home because they visited a country with
a more serious outbreak.
But with new unexplained cases being reported in the United States — and the first domestic death from
the illness reported on Saturday — a growing number of American workers could soon be asked to alter
their routines, or just stay home.
Exactly how that affects you will depend on many factors, including the generosity of your employer’s
benefits and where you live. U.S. workers are less likely to be covered by a paid sick leave policy than those
in other developed countries.
Here’s what else is happening:
•	Google said on Tuesday that it was canceling its annual developers conference because of concerns
related to coronavirus. The Google I/O event was scheduled to take place May 12-14 in Mountain View,
Calif.
•	Robinhood, a free trading app with more than 10 million users, experienced a systemwide shutdown for
a second straight day, leaving many investors angry that they were unable to make trades in a rapidly
moving market. The outage was resolved on Tuesday.
•	Foxconn, the Taiwan-based electronics manufacturer and a crucial partner in Apple’s supply chain, said
on Tuesday that it was producing at only half its required capacity for this time of the year.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/business/stock-market-today.html
4/5
3/3/2020
Stocks Tumble After the Fed Cuts Rates - The New York Times
•	Late on Monday, Hyatt Hotels withdrew its financial forecasts for 2020, in part because of the impact of
travel restrictions imposed by companies since the virus outbreak, saying its ability to assess the impact
of the virus “continues to be limited because of quickly changing circumstances and uncertain consumer
demand for travel.”
•	British Airways canceled 216 flights from London to New York, Italy, France, Germany, Belgium, Austria
and Ireland from March 16 to 28. The airline had previously canceled flights to mainland China and
reduced service to Italy. Ryanair, the Irish discount airline, canceled a quarter of its flights to and from
Italy, from March 17 to April 8.
•	Twitter, which had already closed offices in Japan and South Korea and banned nonessential travel, on
Monday encouraged all of its employees in the United States and other countries to work from home.
And its chief executive, Jack Dorsey, pulled out of a speaking engagement at South by Southwest, an
annual technology conference and music festival scheduled to be held in two weeks in Austin, Tex.
Reporting was contributed by Matt Phillips, Jeanna Smialek, Tara Siegel Bernard, Ben Casselman, Geneva Abdul, Kate Conger, Neil
Irwin, Alexandra Stevenson, Raymond Zhong, Kevin Granville, Carlos Tejada, Daisuke Wakabayashi and Jack Ewing.
The Coronavirus Outbreak
Answers to your most common questions:
Updated March 2, 2020
•	What is a coronavirus?
It is a novel virus named for the crownlike spikes that protrude from its surface.
The coronavirus can infect both animals and people and can cause a range of
respiratory illnesses from the common cold to lung lesions and pneumonia.
•	How contagious is the virus?
It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes,
hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can travel through the air,
enveloped in tiny respiratory droplets that are produced when a sick person
breathes, talks, coughs or sneezes.
READ MORE \/
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/business/stock-market-today.html
5/5