3/2/2020
Stocks Surge as Central Banks Vow to Act on Coronavirus Impact - The New York Times
Slje iNeUr I|orkSimeS https://nyti.ms/2TbQ7IM
Stocks Surge as Central Banks Vow to Act
on Coronavirus Impact
By The New York Times
March 2, 2020 Updated 4:53 p.m. ET
Here’s what you need to know:
•	President Trump says the Fed should bail out the economy.
•	Trump administration criticized for encouraging mask exports.
•	Experts warn of significantly slower global growth.
•	Oil prices rise, as hopes brighten for production cuts.
Stocks surged in the final minutes of trading on Monday, snapping back from one of the worst weeks for
global markets since the 2008 financial crisis as investors seized on promises that the world’s governments
would step in to help if the global economy was slammed by the outbreak of the coronavirus.
The S&P 500 jumped 4.6 percent, the biggest single-day leap since late December 2018. The rally followed
news that central bankers from the world’s biggest economies would join a conference call with Group of 7
finance ministers on Tuesday to discuss a response to the outbreak, fueling expectations among investors
that governments might lower interest rates in tandem.
“It has already stoked expectations of a coordinated cut,” Roberto Perli, a former Fed researcher who is
now an economist at Cornerstone Macro, said in an email. “If it doesn’t happen, it will only add to market
volatility.”
But Mr. Perli did not see it as a sign that a simultaneous cut with other global central banks was necessarily
coming. Nor did Seth Carpenter, another former Fed researcher, now at UBS. “The rally in equities today
has perversely probably made it easier for the Fed to sit back and wait to see what happens,” he said in an
email.
Early Monday, both the Bank of Japan and Bank of England pledged to monitor markets closely and
safeguard financial stability. Later, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank issued a joint
statement saying that the groups stood ready to help “address the human tragedy and economic challenge”
posed by the virus, and the European Central Bank said it “stands ready” to respond to signs of a
slowdown.
“Throughout the world you are seeing clearly a policy response,” said Rich Ross, a managing director at
Evercore ISI. “That’s what’s helping to buoy the market.”
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/business/stock-market-today.html
1/5
3/2/2020
Stocks Surge as Central Banks Vow to Act on Coronavirus Impact - The New York Times
As health officials have raced to contain the outbreak, factories have been shut and businesses squeezed
across the globe. Companies are also readjusting annual profit expectations, and economists are lowering
forecasts for global growth.
Shares in Europe also recovered from losses, and most indexes in Asia ended higher. Still, bond yields fell to
fresh record lows on Monday, suggesting that despite the stock rally, investors were looking for safe
havens. Yields on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note fell to 1.09 percent.
President Trump says the Fed should bail out the economy.
Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, issued a statement saying that the Fed was
prepared to act “as appropriate to support the economy.” Erin Schaff/The New York Times
President Trump continued his browbeating of the Federal Reserve on Monday, saying the Fed chair,
Jerome H. Powell, and his colleagues should quickly slash interest rates as the economic risk posed by the
coronavirus becomes more stark.
“As usual, Jay Powell and the Federal Reserve are slow to act,” he wrote on Twitter. “Germany and others
are pumping money into their economies. Other Central Banks are much more aggressive. The U.S. should
have, for all of the right reasons, the lowest Rate.”
Get an informed guide to the global outbreak with our daily Coronavirus newsletter.
The Fed has begun signaling that a rate cut is likely, and most market participants fully expect a cut at its
next policy meeting on March 17 and 18, if not before.
On Friday, Mr. Powell took the rare step of issuing a statement saying that the Fed was prepared to act “as
appropriate to support the economy.”
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/business/stock-market-today.html
2/5
3/2/2020
Stocks Surge as Central Banks Vow to Act on Coronavirus Impact - The New York Times
But the Fed can cut only so much, given interest rates are already low, at a range between 1.5 percent and
1.75 percent. Most market participants expect a 50-basis-point cut in March, with some predicting an
overall cut this year of 100 basis points — or 1 percent.
The European Central Bank, which runs monetary policy for Germany and other eurozone countries, has
joined most of its global counterparts in simply signaling vigilance in response to the virus. It was already
buying bonds as part of an easing program.
Trump administration criticized for encouraging mask exports.
The Trump administration is grappling with whether to encourage the export of critical medical products
like face masks and surgical gear to China — or save those supplies for the United States.
In a notice issued to American businesses last week, the Commerce Department advertised a change in
Chinese regulations that would temporarily make it easier for American businesses to export medical
products that are useful in battling the coronavirus to China, including protective gear, hand sanitizers and
mask manufacturing machines.
The notice came under fire from Lloyd Doggett, a Democratic congressman from Texas, who said that it
“seemingly conflicts” with congressional testimony by Alex Azar, the health secretary, who said that there
was a shortage of face masks for medical professionals to use in the event of a coronavirus epidemic in the
United States.
“Consistent with Trump downplaying the severity of this crisis, his Commerce Department is encouraging
the export of the very protective gear already in short supply,” Mr. Doggett said in a statement.
The Commerce Department did not immediately respond. But internal department communications
obtained by Mr. Doggett’s office appeared to show that the department had second thoughts about the flyer.
“Please keep China procurement service flyer internal,” said the subject line of an email from the
department’s domestic health care team. “I got a little too eager to promote it — please hold close until we
receive an updated version. More info to come,” the email read.
Experts warn of significantly slower global growth.
A major multinational economic group cut its outlook for 2020 as coronavirus cases show up around the
globe, suggesting that global growth could be cut in half if infections spread more widely outside China.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said that if the outbreak swept widely
through the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and North America, global growth could fall to 1.5 percent this year,
far less than the 3 percent it had projected before the virus surfaced.
“This scenario would put Japan and Europe in recession, and the U.S. close to zero,” Laurence Boone, the
organization’s chief economist, told reporters during a conference call Monday.
She added, “This is not a worst-case scenario.” The impact could be even more dire if the outbreak spreads
beyond Asia, Europe and the United States and into the southern hemisphere, she said.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/business/stock-market-today.html
3/5
3/2/2020
Stocks Surge as Central Banks Vow to Act on Coronavirus Impact - The New York Times
Policymakers have far less room to move in response today than they had headed into the 2007 recession,
but political leaders could provide incentives for companies to shorten work hours rather than lay people
off, or delay tax payments for small businesses suffering from plunging sales, for example.
Ms. Boone said it would be “a very positive signal” if the United States and China were to drop the tariffs
they had imposed as part of a trade war.
Oil prices rise, as hopes brighten for production cuts.
Officials from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Russia are expected to meet in
Vienna this week to try to halt plunging oil prices, which sank about 14 percent last week alone. President
Vladimir V. Putin of Russia suggested on Sunday that his country was willing to work with OPEC to try to
stabilize prices.
Hopes that the gathering will lead to new and deeper production cuts helped lead to price rises on Monday,
ending last week’s slide. Brent crude, the international benchmark, rose to more than $51 a barrel.
The Saudis and other OPEC members are likely to push for cuts of one million barrels a day.
But as the coronavirus continues to fan out across the globe, sapping economic activity, analysts were
doubtful that a cut in production of that size would be enough stem the slide in prices.
Here’s what else is happening:
•	Two Amazon employees in Milan have contracted the coronavirus, the company said. Amazon has
indefinitely halted all travel, including trips within the United States.
•	The International Air Transport Association said on Monday that it was asking governments to suspend
rules obliging carriers to maintain minimum levels of service at individual airports. Rules at about 200
airports worldwide require airlines to use at least 80 percent of the runway capacity they are awarded or
risk losing it.
•	The largest American banks have imposed new limits on their employees’ travel as cases of the
coronavirus crop up in more countries. At Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo,
employees now need senior managers to approve all international business trips. Only essential trips will
be allowed.
•	A major energy conference in Houston was canceled. CERAWeek, run by IHS Markit, had been
scheduled for the week of March 9, with executives and experts from more than 80 countries attending.
•	The New York Times Company adjusted its expectation for digital advertising revenue this quarter to a
decline of 10 percent, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
•	Facebook said in an internal memo that it would no longer allow social visits from non-employees at any
of the company’s global offices. And Twitter said in a blog post on Sunday that it would restrict all
nonessential business travel.
Reporting was contributed by Stanley Reed, Jeanna Smialek, Liz Alderman, Alan Rappeport, Ana Swanson, Matt Phillips, Matt Goldstein,
Jack Ewing, Niraj Chokshi, Karen Weise, Kevin Granville, Mike Isaac, Michael Corkery, Alexandra Stevenson, Sapna Maheshwari, Emily
Flitter, Stanley Reed, Carlos Tejada, Vindu Goel and Karen Singh.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/business/stock-market-today.html
4/5
3/2/2020
Stocks Surge as Central Banks Vow to Act on Coronavirus Impact - The New York Times
The Coronavirus Outbreak
Answers to your most common questions:
Updated March 2, 2020
•	What is a coronavirus?
It is a novel virus named for the crownlike spikes that protrude from its surface.
The coronavirus can infect both animals and people and can cause a range of
respiratory illnesses from the common cold to lung lesions and pneumonia.
•	How contagious is the virus?
It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes,
hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can travel through the air,
enveloped in tiny respiratory droplets that are produced when a sick person
breathes, talks, coughs or sneezes.
READ MORE V
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/business/stock-market-today.html
5/5