2/24/2020
Dow Industrials Close 1,000 Points Lower as Coronavirus Cases Mount - WSJ
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit
https://www.djreprints.com.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/stocks-fall-as-coronavirus-spread-accelerates-outside-china-11582533308
U.S. MARKETS
Dow Industrials Close 1,000 Points Lower as
Coronavirus Cases Mount
S&P 500, Nasdaq fall 3% after steep declines across Europe, Asia; bond yields approach new low
By	Chong Koh Ping, Anna Isaac and Caitlin McCabe
Updated Feb. 24,2020 4:03 pm ET
Investors around the world stepped up their retreat from stocks and piled into haven assets like
government bonds and gold, reflecting escalating worries that the coronavirus will crimp
global growth.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped more than 1,000 points; the yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note approached its record low; and gold prices climbed for the eighth
straight session to a fresh seven-year high.
Fears about contagion rattled investors after a surge of cases outside China were reported over
the weekend, prompting concerns about new pockets of infection in Italy, Iran and South Korea.
The epidemic, which has curtailed Chinese manufacturing, exports and consumption this year,
is threatening to dampen global growth as factories world-wide depend on a supply chain
tethered to China. Officials and economists are warning that an extended Chinese shutdown
could cripple global manufacturing and cost the world up to $1 trillion in lost output.
“With the developments we saw over the weekend—more cases, more people getting sick
without coming into contact with people from China—I think it’s opened the eyes of the
investment community and it opened the eyes of the World Health Organization,” said Carter
Henderson, a portfolio manager at Pittsburgh-based Fort Pitt Capital Group. “We don’t know
how or why this virus is spreading.”
The blue-chip index fell 801 points, or 2.8%, erasing it gain for the year. The index earlier
dropped as much as 1,080 points. The S&P 500 declined 2.6%, with all 11 sectors posting
declines.
https://www.wsj .com/articles/stocks-fall-as-coronavirus-spread-accelerates-outside-china-11582533308?mod=hp_lead_pos 1
1/4
2/24/2020
Dow Industrials Close 1,000 Points Lower as Coronavirus Cases Mount - WSJ
The Nasdaq Composite suffered the steepest losses, dropping 2.8%. Tech stocks have continued
to lead the market this year, and the Nasdaq is hanging on to a 3.7% gain for 2020.
U.S. stocks had been relatively resilient in the wake of the epidemic. The S&P 500 and
technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite set records as recently as Wednesday but have dropped
4% and 5.3%, respectively, over the past three sessions. The Dow industrials are off 4.6% from
their Feb. 12 record.
Energy and technology stocks posted the biggest declines in the S&P 500, both falling about 3%.
Oil company Hess slid 6.9%, and graphics chip maker Advanced Micro Devices fell 6.2%.
Airlines and travel-related stocks were hit particularly hard. American Airlines dropped 8.5%,
Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings dropped 8.4% and Booking Holdings -the operator of Priceline
and Kayak-declined 6.7%.
The flight from stocks coincided with a rush into haven assets. Gold prices rose 1.7% to
$1,672.40 a troy ounce, the highest level since Feb. 6,2013. Increased demand for U.S.
government bonds sent the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note down to 1.367%,
approaching the 2016 all-time closing low of 1.364%, according to Tradeweb.
“The rally of haven assets such as gold reflects surging demand for safety during a time of
uncertainty,” said CMC Markets analyst Margaret Yang. “Things will probably get worse before
it gets better.”
The Cboe Volatility Index, or VIX, jumped to 24.20, on track to close at its highest level since
early August. The options-based gauge tends to rise when markets fall and investors reach for
insurance-like contracts to protect their portfolios. Near-dated futures contracts tracking the
index also jumped above those expiring in later months, a sign that many investors are bracing
for more volatility.
Meanwhile, Brent crude dropped 5.3% to $54.86 a barrel. Oil prices have declined in recent
weeks on investors’ concerns that the epidemic would sap demand for crude.
After weeks of new highs among major U.S. stocks indexes, market gains started to unravel last
week, as it became increasingly clear that the coronavirus will disrupt global supply chains
more than originally anticipated. Those concerns worsened over the weekend after a surge of
cases were reported in South Korea, Iran and Italy.
So far in Italy, six people have died from the illness, making it the world’s third-biggest national
outbreak after China and South Korea. More than 50,000 people remain under quarantine in
the country.
https://www.wsj .com/articles/stocks-fall-as-coronavirus-spread-accelerates-outside-china-11582533308?mod=hp_lead_pos 1
2/4
2/24/2020
Dow Industrials Close 1,000 Points Lower as Coronavirus Cases Mount - WSJ
In an update Monday, the World Health Organization said China has reported a total of 77,362
cases of the coronavirus, including 2,618 deaths. The Geneva-based organization said the
number of cases is declining in China, even as they increase elsewhere.
Apple last week became the first major U.S. company to say it won’t meet revenue projections
for the quarter due to the epidemic. Several other companies, including Procter & Gamble and
Royal Caribbean Cruises, followed suit, warning that they expected the epidemic to impact
their financial performances.
“Clearly this selloff today is pretty dramatic and there’s no question that the selloff in the U.S.
was precipitated by what’s going on in Europe,” said Chris Zaccarelli, chief investment officer
for Charlotte-based Independent Advisor Alliance. “Fear has gripped the continent.”
The Stoxx Europe 600 index retreated 3.8%. Germany’s DAX, the benchmark for Europe’s
industrial powerhouse, dropped 4%.
“Not only are Chinese industrial hubs in lockdown, and derailing global supply chains, you now
have the virus spreading very close to industrial hubs in Europe,” said Florian Hense, European
economist at Berenberg Bank.
“Northern Italy, Switzerland, Southern Germany, and Austria form a big supranational
industrial hub,” Mr. Hense said. “Should a lockdown in small areas of Italy be widened, there
would be far more significant disruption for manufactures like German car makers in Europe.”
In South Korea, the benchmark Korea Composite Stock Price Index, or Kospi, closed down 3.9%.
That was its biggest one-day fall since 2018, according to FactSet. South Korea on Sunday
raised its infectious-disease alert to red—the highest level—for the first time since the H1N1
swine flu outbreak in 2009.
Disinfectant sprayers at a market in Seoul on Monday.
PHOTO: JUNG YEON-JE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES
https://www.wsj.com/articles/stocks-fall-as-coronavims-spread-accelerates-outside-china-l 1582533308?mod=hp_lead_posl
3/4
2/24/2020
Dow Industrials Close 1,000 Points Lower as Coronavirus Cases Mount - WSJ
“This could serve as a ‘wake-up’ call for Japan and other Asian economies, which are vulnerable
against the impact of the virus,” said Ms. Yang. “This will also put the hosting of Tokyo Summer
Olympic Games under scrutiny, as Japan now has the highest number of infections outside of
China alongside an aging population.”
Elsewhere in Asia, stock benchmarks in Hong Kong and Singapore fell 1.8% and 1.2%,
respectively. In Australia the S&P/ASX 200 index declined 2.3%. Markets in Japan were closed
Monday.
READ MORE
•	10-Year Yield Near Record Low
•	Airline, Travel Stocks Take Hit
•	Oil Slumps, Gold Soars
•	Haven Gains Fuel Growth Fears
•	Heard on the Street: Korea's Coronavirus Spread Puts an Export Hub at Risk
•	World Economy Shudders as Coronavirus Threatens Global Supply Chains
•	Coronavirus Spreads Outside China as Officials' Worries Mount
•	What We Know About the Coronavirus
Write to Anna Isaac at anna.isaac@wsj.com
Copyright © 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit
https://www.djreprints.com.
https://www.wsj .com/articles/stocks-fall-as-coronavirus-spread-accelerates-outside-china-11582533308?mod=hp_lead_pos 1
4/4