3/12/2020
Stocks Plunge by the Most Since 1987: Live Updates - The New York Times
JvcUl jjork Simes https://nyti.ms/39ESfYZ
LIVE UPDATES Updated 2 minutes ago
Stocks Plunge by the Most Since
1987: Live Updates
RIGHT NOW President Trump’s travel ban sends airline stocks tumbling.
Here’s what you need to know:
•	Stocks plummet as Trump’s travel ban adds to investors’ distress.
•	The Fed intervenes after ‘highly unusual disruptions.’
•	Airlines cancel flights and lay off workers as their shares plummet.
•	Widespread worry about economic impact, but with a partisan hue.
•	Disney will closes its parks in California.
Stocks plummet as Trump’s travel ban adds to investors’ distress.
Stocks continued their plunge on Thursday, as President Trump’s latest effort to address the coronavirus outbreak — a ban on the entry
from most European countries to the United States — disappointed investors who have been waiting for Washington to take steps to
bolster the economy
Trading was turbulent, with stocks staging a brief comeback as investors reacted to the Federal Reserve’s decision to offer at least $1.5
trillion worth of loans to banks to help smooth out the functioning of the financial markets. But the selling picked up again by
midafternoon.
The S&P 500 closed down about 9.5 percent, its biggest daily drop since the stock market crashed in 1987, on what came to be known as
Black Monday. The decline has left stocks in the United States firmly in a bear market — a term that signifies a decline of 20 percent from
the most recent highs.
For the Dow Jones industrial average, the drop of 10 percent was also its worst since the 1987 stock market crash.
The travel ban hit shares in Europe particularly hard, with major stock indexes there down more than 10 percent. It also battered airline
stocks. And, with oil prices falling, energy companies were among the day’s biggest losers, too.
Waves of selling have come as investors have been dismayed by Washington’s inability to rally around a meaningful response to the
economic toll the outbreak will take. Mr. Trump said on Wednesday that he would extend financial relief for sick workers and would ask
Congress for more. But he remained at loggerheads with Congress on more comprehensive measures.
The most notable step Mr. Trump announced on Wednesday, that the United States would stop travel from most European countries
outside Britain for 30 days, hurt financial markets more than it helped. And on Thursday, he said he could restrict domestic travel to
regions of the United States when the coronavirus becomes “too hot.”
“Until there are details on the steps that leadership intends to pursue to remedy the economic effects of the viral outbreak, equity markets
will be vulnerable,” said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern Trust.
The Fed intervenes after ‘highly unusual disruptions.’
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/business/stock-market-today.html?action=click&module=Spotlight&pgtype=Homepage
1/4
3/12/2020
Stocks Plunge by the Most Since 1987: Live Updates - The New York Times
im m
The markets for a variety of bonds — including usually easy-to-trade Treasuries — has turned messier, prompting the Federal Reserve to take action. Justin Lane/EPA, via
Shutters tock
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York responded on Thursday to increasingly fraught market conditions by announcing that it would
offer at least $1.5 trillion worth of short-term loans to banks Thursday and Friday and change the structure of its asset purchase program.
Get an informed guide to the global outbreak with our daily coronavirus newsletter.
The moves came as the markets for a variety of bonds — including usually easy-to-trade Treasuries — turned messier starting on
Wednesday. Traders and strategists reported that markets were thin, and the gap between the prices buyers offered and those that sellers
asked for was widening. At the same time, tremors had developed in funding markets, the plumbing of financial markets in which cash
flows between banks, as fears over the coronavirus economic caused gyrations across Wall Street.
“These changes are being made to address highly unusual disruptions in Treasury financing markets associated with the coronavirus
outbreak,” the New York Fed said in a statement.
Specifically, the central bank announced that it would offer $500 billion in a three-month repurchase operation Thursday afternoon. It also
said that it would begin to buy government debt “across a range of maturities.” In recent months, it has been buying $60 billion a month
only in short-term Treasury bills.
Analysts viewed the moves as warranted given funding constraints on Wall Street.
“This is a full-blown crisis response operation, intended to make it abundantly clear that the Fed will not allow liquidity to dry up,” Ian
Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a note.
Airlines cancel flights and lay off workers as their shares plummet.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/business/stock~market~today.html?action=click&modide=Spotlight&pgtype=Homepage
2/4
3/12/2020
Stocks Plunge by the Most Since 1987: Live Updates - The New York Times
Airlines around the world on Thursday scrambled to cancel flights, lay off workers and reassure anxious travelers, capping a dizzying
period in which bookings have evaporated and investors have lost confidence in the industry
The latest frenzy was touched off by President Trump’s announcement on Wednesday that, beginning Friday night, most travelers from 26
European countries would be barred from visiting the United States for 30 days, news that sent airline stocks tumbling. Shares of United
Airlines and Delta Air Lines closed down by more than 20 percent, and American Airlines was down about 17 percent. Earlier, shares of the
parent company of British Airways closed down 16 percent in London.
Already reeling from a steep decline in bookings because of the coronavirus outbreak, airlines now stand to lose millions of dollars in
revenue from a substantial decline in trans-Atlantic flights, which account for a big chunk of their business.
Over the next four weeks, the ban would affect more than 6,700 flights in each direction, according to an analysis by OAG, an aviation data
provider. Delta is the airline most affected, operating 17 percent of those flights, according to OAG. United is next, with 14 percent, followed
by Lufthansa, with 13 percent. American ranked fourth, operating about 8 percent of the affected flights.
Widespread worry about economic impact, but with a partisan hue.
Most Americans surveyed are worried about the economic impact of the coronavirus outbreak, with concern greatest among Democrats
and independent voters, according to a nationwide poll conducted by the online research firm SurveyMonkey for The New York Times.
The partisan gap in attitudes in the survey, which was begun last week and completed on Sunday, may reflect Republicans’ greater
receptivity to President Trump’s assurances that the economy remains strong and that the virus is under control in the United States.
Three-quarters of independents and more than 8 in 10 Democrats said they worried that the virus outbreak would hurt the economy. Two-
thirds of Republicans expressed similar concern.
Political differences were even more pronounced on questions about the potential health effects of the coronavirus and personal
precautions against it.
Fewer than two in five Republican respondents in the poll said they were worried that they or someone in their family would be exposed to
the virus. Nearly seven in 10 said they had made no changes, such as reducing travel, working from home or wearing medical face masks
in public, in response to the virus.
In both cases, Democrats and independents expressed significantly higher degrees of alarm.
Disney will closes its parks in California.
The Walt Disney Company said on Thursday that it would close the Disneyland resort in Anaheim for the first time since the Sept. 11
attacks, and just the fourth time in its 65-year history, because of the coronavirus pandemic.
Disneyland Park and Disney California Adventure — two adjoining, but separately ticketed theme parks — will close on Saturday morning
through the end of the month. Disney’s hotels in Anaheim will remain open until Monday.
Disney noted that there had been no reported cases of the virus at the resort.
The company said it would continue to pay its employees while the resort is closed. Refunds will be given for hotel bookings during the
closure period.
Media companies cancel their showcases.
CBS and NBC both canceled their annual spring showcases for advertisers, known as upfronts, on Thursday because of fears surrounding
the coronavirus.
At the star-studded events, which take place in mid-May and are among the biggest in the television industry, entertainment executives
unveil their new upcoming television series and do their best to persuade advertising agencies to buy commercial time.
“We’ll miss Carnegie Hall and our agency dinners this year, but the health and safety of our clients and the ViacomCBS team comes first,”
said Jo Ann Ross, the chief advertising revenue officer at ViacomCBS.
Both companies, along with others like Twitter, YouTube and Roku, said they would instead post video presentations online. WarnerMedia
and Xandr, AT&T’s advertising unit, said on Thursday that they would scrap their joint live event in May in favor of “a unique video
experience.” Cable outlets like Fox News and AMC Networks have also canceled events.
The cancellations could cause havoc for the media companies at a time when they are already confronting diminished ratings and
relevance as more people shift to commercial-free streaming video platforms like Netflix, Disney Plus and Amazon’s Prime Video.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/business/stock-market-today.html?action=click&module=Spotlight&pgtype=Homepage
3/4
3/12/2020
Stocks Plunge by the Most Since 1987: Live Updates - The New York Times
Here’s what else is happening.
•	“The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” and “Late Night With Seth Meyers” will suspend production next week, NBC said Thursday,
making them the biggest daily American television series to go dark because of concerns surrounding the coronavirus pandemic.
•	Disney said it would postpone its live-action remake “Mulan,” which was supposed to arrive in theaters on March 27, and its already
long-delayed X-Men movie “The New Mutants,” which had been scheduled for April 3. Searchlight, the art house studio now owned by
Disney, will delay the release of “Antlers,” which had been set to arrive on April 17.
•	The European Central Bank stepped up its purchases of government and corporate bonds, but disappointed expectations that it would
cut a key interest rate.
•	President Trump’s travel ban will hit jet fuel consumption hard. Bjornar Tonhaugen, head of oil market research at Rystad Energy,
estimated that jet fuel use will drop by 600,000 barrels a day, or about 9 percent of the total market.
Reporting was contributed by Brooks Barnes, Jack Ewing, Peter S. Goodman, Jim Tankersley, John Koblin, Tiffany Hsu, Jeanna Smialek, Kevin McKenna, Stanley Reed, Keith
Bradsher, Liz Alderman, Alexandra Stevenson, Isabella Kwai, Keith Bradsher, Nicole Perlroth, Matthew Goldstein, Geneva Abdul and Carlos Tejada.
The Coronavirus Outbreak
Answers to your most common questions:
Updated March 12, 2020
•	What is a coronavirus?
It is a novel virus named for the crownlike spikes that protrude from its surface.
The coronavirus can infect both animals and people and can cause a range of
respiratory illnesses from the common cold to lung lesions and pneumonia.
•	How contagious is the virus?
It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes,
hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can travel through the air,
enveloped in tiny respiratory droplets that are produced when a sick person
breathes, talks, coughs or sneezes.
READ MORE V
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/business/stock-market4odayJitml?action=click&module=Spotlight&pgtype=Homepage
4/4