THE MARKET.
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jan 3, 1900;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 6
THE MARKET.
10.25.—On the more favorable reports from South Africa iitlermiliiiiml stocks opened strong. •Foreign houses being buyers, especially of St. Paul. Federal Sleel advanced fnrllier on the dividend prospects mid the exnected advance in the price of the product. Leather was bought by Standard Oil interests and elsewhere.
The acquisition of important tanneries in Main was regarded as a Itivora.ble feature. There was little prolit• taking by i ruder.-; in liie .l’tieilic stock;-but toe prices were well ma I a tai tied. Tin: eliqti which-was buying I’acilii- Mai! last week was stil active. General tone of the nmrkei was cunlidenl.
11.15.—The features of the market, were the ad vanee in Sugar and tlie attuck upon me BrooKlyi Rapid Transit. The forecast of the sugar trtuli circulars was eoiismeretl good and the buying wtit more general ilimi has been the case in tins stuck lor seine rune. It was helped by some short cios ing. Standard Oil brokers were moderate sellers in Leather.
There was some buying at the opening of tin general list by commission houses, but this tell olT Traders made a concerted attack upon B K. 'I'. Metropolitan and Manhattmi were both effected London was a seller of Pm-ilie stocks and B. < >.
.After a vorv Ineffective raid Brooklyn Rapid Transit recovered and other stocks effected advance,! with them .Metropolitan and B. K. T. were estieeitil l.v strong on purchases for St maim'd i ni mm Vanderbilt interests. New York Central was bought by Vanderbilt brokers and all trunk stocks showed strength, notably Burlington. Sugar eased off slightly on some prid’d-taking by traders.
Tin- strength in Steel stocks was well maintained. and me buying was ot specially good character. Some stri-ngth was shown in me money rale, but without effecting prices. Jt was i-rmie mid done ns high m; 127.
1.::().•■•t.lonsider.-ibb' strength was shown in Vanderbilt	‘
principal feature.
on 111" good earnings which slmw .*:’>()().tnlt.i surplii for tlie eomnmn with six months of ihe year to run The slrengili in l''edoral Sieol was maintained mol wire stocks were also good. Sugar had a sensation al recovery, and the advance in the price in tin morning had the effect of bringing large short put chases.
:: p m.—The strength displayed in the market especially in industrials, was maintained prm-iicall,' until tlm close. The withdrawal of compel it ion in prices helped Sugar to a further advance mid all in dust rial slocks showed strength on eimtiniied good buying. Tim money rate eased olT at Ihe liuisli uni the general tom- of the market was hopeful mid cni;
- lident.
ll.llti.-Brokers generally renmrkcil on tin- large minium of outside business which was done in the miirket. It was especially mu iei-abh- in I’nioii and Southern l'tieilic. The statement of ihe latter company was considered excellent mid gave a gem-raliy strong tone to all I’m-iiic issues. The mid'kei was i it cl i tied to consider the imliemioiis showed a cessation ill tlie sugar compelitiii- rail's mid ilie 5, advance iludpcd by a weak bcm' m-i-oniifl was ilii-i-ou-sequence, l-'oreign houses reported I lull the failures (lie London Sluck l-l.whmige were simill dealers mining share.-. mid of no importance.
Total sales of stocks Mere litii'.tiii.*', shares.
Money; High I2y, low later ■l(<iTri'.
iii in
.	the
stocks. New York Cenfral being the .	.	niid (here was considerable in-
quiry for Hi" J?onr. rhe Inlying in nil eases coming from what were considered very good sources. The strength in Sugar was well maintained, and in spite of tlso relative stillness of the money rate, the geiiertd tone was hard, although the market had a Tendency to drift into traders' bands.
■	2.2.‘.-—Tobacco stocks showed strength upon an-
ticipations of :t favorable showing in ihe nnmni! report of tlie American Tnbiicco Co. Pennsylvania was a strong market and was bought for Vanderbilt interests. Then- was cimsiderabh- inquiry I'm- .Tor sey t'entrid mid increased dividend next week wus; confidently expected. Norfolk issues were strong;
I.i't't'ii-r pld— l.’ielmriison boughi: I luu-al.'.e, sold. St. I’mil bile N I’.m-tun. .'Inure \ Schley, litirmid. iiriii-slieek sold. Aina Tub lliidson i-.ddoi bought; llalsietl A- Illidges I.IIIIIII mill II. Judson ig.iitiOi sold. A. s. -I’rii'e, McCormic!; & Co. bought 1.5(111; I >. Bacon sold l.linu.
London sold I'uion Pacific mid Southern Pa-i-i lie.
Pi. R. T—TIalle.& Stieglitz bought IJitltl. C. & O—l. I'’. Mend liiiiigdm l.Umi. Sugar—Bell & Co., I*', TV. Savin 12,51101 bought; Content sold.
l.i-mbor.—-ITndsoii bought:	1.1. L. Smyth sold.
Sugar---'lurtt n. Bm-lie. C;ir!isle. Hudson and S. Wais bought; Content. Boll X- Co., llonsman. Content, Mmidlmm, and Lndenlmrgh, Tlmlmann Co. sold.
T.. & N.-—Clews iS' Co. bought. B. TL T—Thms-iiinn (1,500) bought : Bissell, T, J. Taylor and Contunl sold.	’	I
Sugar—Eiling wood A: Ciiniiinghmn. -I. IL Willis-i Uli. Content (l.hOITl J, S, Item-lies bought; Guild-iiii-t 11.(1010, It, 11. Thomas (1.00(11 and Carlisle fl.OtlOc mid.	j
S. ]’ac--Tliille A' Stieglitz bought	.1,50(1	.1
Conf. Toll—Tilgliman. Howland	A	Co.	bought:j
Hudson, Prince & Whitelyjsold.	I
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.