FEATURES OF THE MARKET. Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 6, 1901;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg..8_________________________________ ...
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
The'opening of the marketwas a weak one^on ■fhe adverse -reports in connection /.with,- the Uniton h&tates Steel labor difficulties. It was taken that a -long tihd expensive Ught was unavoidable and pric.es ^^enerally :opened'one to three points neiow -Maar sj^ay’s ’close. •. Ayith small rallies, the decline coutin-=^£ued;throughout the day and although the report ^officially promulgated that; the strike would not be |5jiriaide general before next week caused some cover-^Jing-of; shorts, the tone was weak and the liquidation £ ^general up -to the close. United States Steel com-'( ‘iihon lost 3| ipoints and the preferred 3 poiuts. Atcli-/ison sold down nearly 3 points; St. ratil.3| P°",nt«» & Union Pacificthe same, and Southern Pacific 2§#.
The Soft Coalers lost ground, Norfolk & Western ^declining 2J points, Chesapeake & Ohio 11. Beading,Erie and Ontario & Western .issues were al-i most, equally weak.	_	.
Sugar had a severe break, losing 5J points on ’ heavy sales, probably based on the belief that the inside interests had gotten out higher up. The Traction stocks although they were not dealt in in any volume lost from 2 to 24 points on the day. The ' Steel strike was of course the dominating influence 'ip the day’s trading, but the recrudescence of adverse crop rumors from Chicago was a significant feature. There was of course a good deal of what, looked like bear pressure, but it was plain that liquidation in'considerable volume was going on. Money was no factor.	•
It was said that a bear pool had been formed in - Metropolitan.
? Boston operators were reported to have again '■ taken the short side in Sugar.	'
. - The Union Pacific dividend wil he declared on ’\ Thursday at the rate of 2# semi-annual.
:	It was said that there had been a good deal of
short selling of Sugar, especially after the stock broke 135.
. .Pacific Mail was weak on very limited sales. The nuso'ttled labor situation in San Francisco has the effect of discouraging bull operations.
. The absence of a short interest and eonseonent-, ly a good market to sell stock on is shown in the ' case of ChiriHro ,tr North western which declined (1.;‘ points on 1,400 shares of stock.
Wasserman Bros, were considerable buyers of ‘ Pennsylvania, taking in all some 1'7.00(1 shares. . lie strength displayed in this quarter was reflected sympathetically in the soft coal roads.
There was a reappearance of the good buying of a short time ago in Southern Pacific on the decline, but whatever interest may be accumulating stock seems well content to pick it up cheap.,
The weakness in Suuihern flail way, Erie and other issnes of wli’at are called Morgan roads was in a largemeasure on ibe idea that inside support would be withdrawn to protect Steel stocks.
A good deal of bearish talk was current en American Sugar and Head & Co. and 11. Content had selling orders. Humors included more effective ’ competition and cutting of prices for refined sugar.
The decline in Illinois ('mitral and Baltimore & Ohio showed that there lmd been n good deal , of genuine liquidation. This was in face of the fact of Mr. Wallers’ buying in the hitter, which . is always characterized as good.
Chicago & Alton on its first completed yea/ earns 1/7 on the common st net after paying tin* full dividend on the preferred. At tin- present-price this is not a very rosy ouim. k and has been responsible for good deal of the recent selling.
The circular inviting deposits of Cotton Oil stock at the First National Bank was of course the reason for the strength.in that issue. The new organization is iinilvrstouf’l to lie under the auspices of the Virginiti-tyrolina Chemical Co.
As the LondonZstoeic Exchange was (dosed there was no.wliin-age trading but some of the heavy selling orders in the Steel stocks came from the other side. It was said that the (lutes following in Europe was operating on the short side.
Tennessee Coal & Iron sympathized witli the decline in Steel, but Cidorado Enel did not suffer. There was no selling'in lhe hitter, and insiders claim that its geographical position is such as to make its position stronger in the eveut of labor troubles elsewhere.
After the sharp decline St. Paul was bought in good quarters and it seemed to be the finding that it had suffered in large measure for other people's sins. August is generally a good month- with St. Paul and its good wheat crop prospects have so far r.ot been taken into Wall street’s calculations.
The t'nion I’a-.-ifie Southern Pacific combination is taking away a great dealof passenger traffic front Denver & Ilin Grande and the Gould interests are credibly reported to be entertaining plans for reprisals. These will take the form, it is .understood, of more passenger agencies on the Pacific Coast.
There are trustworthy reports to the effect that liepublic Steel is doing an exceptionally large’business. It is an ill wind that blows nobody tiny good and the Steel strike so far has worked it nothing but benefit. There is even talk of a dividend on the common stock next mouth but this is almost too good to be true.
The decline in Consolidated Gas was made with the rest of the market and was not of special significance. Insiders are bullish on important developments early in the fall. There is some reason to believe that these will take the form of a readjustment of the capital on terms exceptionally favorable to present stockholders.
Chicago continued to sell stock all afternoon but some of the houses trading for the West denied that there had been much short selling for that account. They said tlmt Western operators wove well disposed to take the long side (his time last week, when it was believed the steel strike was settled, but the recent developments had forced renewed liquidation upon them.
The demand for stock in the loan crowd was fairly good, particularly in Ixiuisville, which was wanted at 2;7. Atchison was by no means plentiful at 24 to 2#. Kock Island was not so scarce at 1 io 14X* The Steel clocks were loaning at ’lf7, but not in quite such plentiful supply as last week. The demand for Sugar at 24'7 was rather significant. Rates on rails were generally 24'7.
The trading in bonds was rather larger in volume, and naturallly with so much realizing .in stocks, such issnes as I’nion Pacific convertible 4’s and ol'her new collateral trust bonds lost ground. Mexican Central issues were lowin’ and second class issues almost all showed fractional declines. Gov-ermnent issues ami gill-edged railroad bonds were unchanged. Total sales $2,270,(100.
Specialists were intrusted with Hie early buying in United States Steel and Hulsey & l.lodgea also had buying orders in some 211.1100 shares. Pearl & Co.’mill <T. H. Griefte! protected the coil)-mon and preferred in the late trading. Pittsburg operators who had bought on Satulilay sold their stock during the (lay. ('Iiieugo wim a persistent seller, and there were same heavy Hilles said to lie for foreign account.
Jt wns noticeable Hint Canadian Pacific in spile Of the genernl weakness in fhe market onlv lost one point on the day. Buying lias been consistently good and the prospects of the road an; excellent apart from favorable developments In connection with Its probable closer alliance with the Northwestern combiimtinn. The market overlooked lhe. . fact that the company had won out in its fight with, the striking trackmen.
• Infinite of the dm’s decline on the stock, At-1
•cliisen officials take - a sabgiiineiyiew of the road’s prospects. They say that alfalfa and other subsidiary crops for feeding stock Wave done well; that in this Respect New Mexico anil' Arizona will lift self-supporting, and that the- high price . of corn will: in a great measure compensate the farmers elsewhere for theii- heavy losses. Reports from the same source indicate that the cotton crop at any rate is likely to be very good..	.	.
The operations of the underwriting syndicate in United States Steel excited considerable interest, and its position on the market was matter of considerable speculation. . One guess was that in supporting it lmd bought $75,000,000 ‘of Steel common and preferred. There is reason to believe, -however, that purchases for that account do not reach this figure. Some 12|# of the $200,000,000 guarantee lias been called up. A bid was made recently of 125 for one interest’s holding in the syndicate for each $100 subscribed.
The operations of the underwriting syndicate in United States Steel excited general interest, and its position on the market was'matter of considerable speculation. One, guess was that in supporting it lmd bought $75,000,000 of Steel common and preferred. There is reason to believe, however, tlmt purchases for that account do not reach this figure. Some 12 of the $200,000,000 guarantee has been called mp. A bid was made recently of 125 for one interest’s holding in the syndicate for each $100 subscribed. A member of tlie underwriting syndicate said that he expected a further call of 124# of the guarantee.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.