FEATURES OF THE MARKET. Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Sep 14, 1901; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 8	______ , ..
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
The alarming news on the President’s condi-ition vvas of. course^4hc dominant factor on the days, ’itrading, andcit<was .plain-from the heavy realizing ?tiiat”the Street was preparing for the worst, al-itlibugh-.the support from nil the big-interests avei't-fe^anytliing remotely resembling a panic and show,-?ed;liow generally willing everyone was to hope foi ’'thfe'hest. Prices opened at declines of froth 3. to 0 points, which were in some instances partially recovered;' although 4he closo showed very heavy losses on the day.	-	■
'Disappointment on the dividend in St. rau was added' to its. sympathetic break with the rest 'bf the,market, and it lost otf on the day. Bock. Island lost C-points and Northwest 5 points. Union pacific declined -3^ and Southern Pacific 3}/. Atchison issues were almost as weak, and Missoun Pacific gave 'way'll in spite of good inside snpporw btiidr,Gould stocks lost ground in similar or greater volume.	.
The anthracite coal stocks were all very wean, Brie issues losing between 2 and 3 points, head K issues as much or more, and Ontario & y'estern losf 2Jt< Among the other coal stocks, HoeH*-f. ,Valiev declined 2^, Norfolk common 2-^ and Chesapeake & Ohio 2^. Pennsylvania lost ana New York Central 3/. AH the big interests supported their own stocks. The Steel stocks declined more than 3 points and oilier industrials from • JO points, the latter in Linseed preferred. Money was harder, but was no great factor.
"The independent steel stocks did not act well. ’ There was little conservative buying in American Sugar for trade interests, on the break.
Money loaned as high as 10,4 but the Street filled most of its requirements between 0 and (%• The considerable short interest open in ilm stock materially helped Atchison common on the decline.
The Moore Bros. .i|id their following were reported to be supporting their own stocks in .-n engo and here.
Conspicuously good support was forthcoming in all the Morgan issues, but especially in Southern. Bail way preferred.
Illinois Central shared in the good support given to the other Harriman stocks and showed remarkable strength.
The Gould issues were well supported apd ga'e ■evidence that the stocks were nearly all in the hands of the insiders. After the early-break, very little came out.	.
Rock Island did not act well and evidently felt the effect of the absence of any short interest. The only purchasers for the long stock coming out wore, the Chicago inside pool.
There is good authority for saying that there are large sunporting orders in the market for Ln. Pacific. Southern Pacific, and the Morgan stocks, at about 2 points under last night’s close. .
Some 5,000 shares of B. R- T. speculative long stock were sold “at ihe market.” and caused an early break in ihe stock. It was.better taken care of afterwards and dosed substantially above lowest. Probably a good deal of the selling in the last half hour was by traders who. were protect ing themselves against, the possibility of further bail news from Buffalo at the opening of to-day s market.
Chicago support wim considered traceable m People's Gas, where the feeling was Hint the stock would not suffer much on a general decline, while its condition and prospective rights made it worth having on breaks.
'The forecasts of ‘the bunk statement were good 7^1 if was expected that tlie Treasury purchases of bonds would sufficiently offset the losses of the banks and cause some increase in surplus reserve. The liquidation of the week was taken to indicate a reduction in the item of loans.	(
There-was very fair pool sntmorl in Manhattan tlirniv’hont tin* dav and where other /forks suffered SO severely it was worthy of record that it declined onlv 24 points. Long stock was very well taken mid insiders are confident of its power of recovery any favornidi' market conditions.
* Despite the fact tlmt Hie road will, in the natural course, suffer somewhat from the failure of me corn crop. Peoria & Eastern people say they are confident that ihe gross earnings will keep up and already see signs that the loss -will be made up by an increase in miscellaneous freight.
After the earlv break, the market steadied and it was plain that‘the very limited public account enabled the big interests to keep it well ill 'inmi. Commission houses, with hardly any exception, reported that they had an eximedinglv light line of stock open, ami the pressure of European selling was verv well taken.
The" Vanderbilt stocks'were supported whore anv pressure developed, but. the recent buying in Bi<r Four seeiuril. to linve been for an outside pool, tis'thev found no market for the stock on .an attempt‘to realize. Insiders apparently were not willing to take their purchases oil their bands at tlie present figures.
London sold 35,000 shares, buying nothing. The market on the other side was too wide to lend itself well to arbitrage operations, and it is probable that considerably more stock was sold for foreign account than these figures indicate. Liqimiation was reported for Berlin anil Antwerp direct. Luese sales did not come through arbitrage hands.
There were some reports during the day that tin- controlling interest in Smelters, or perhaps the stronger of thel.wo conllicting inside interests, was having stock, ou the break. A fairly, well founded rumor was in circulation that the company had its hands full of lead, which tlie present dcniaml for that metal was not snflieiciit to absorb.
Although there was nothing in tlie afternoon news to indicate any change in the Presidents condition, it was plain tlmt the interests who weie supporting tlie market had placed their buying oi-tiers considerably lower in view of tlie heavy realizing. This was noticeably the case in ht. I atu, Southern -Pacific, Union Pacific, Amalgamated Copper, -Suga.r, and Erics.
' 'Air. T. AV. Lawson, of Boston, was at some pains vesterdav. to impress on Hie public tlmt he Imd been nwav yachting for two days, not on. the Independence, and tlmt lie lmd not been bearing Amalgamated Copper. The news was m. so reassuring tis might have been expected, and the market, seemed to have almost-forgotten who Mi. T. AV. Lawson, of Boston, was.
' It was curious lmw entirely the attention <>t he market was centered ou the President s condi-
< ion. In anv other circumstances, President bl a -er's admission tlmt he wim suomg lor peace would ■ Sve been an important bull factor In any case, Steel stocks were very well supported, possibly to <> coiisidera'ble extent by tlie underwriting syndicate, but also 'on scale iiiiywig orders for other m-tCre*The relative strength in Mexican National was verv significant and was a iairiy clear inilu.iii.iim that recent purchases had gone into strong hands There is verv little doubt that the Mexican Ini< i national is controlled by that road amwilform mirt of the reorganization scheme, lhms oni o the most valuable .railroad joronerties in Mexico and
not the less so because the late.Air. C. I- Huntington 'declined to accept any subsidy Hither than tu* bis hands. When general market conditions turn attention once more to the’ merits- of Individual stocks, Mexican National ,is likely to be a very in-, foresting feature. ■' .	f	.
There was a heavy day’s trading in bonds, and the 'speculative issues, necessarily; lost ground in sympathy with theibi-eak in...tlie ^general‘market. Xlie heaviest realizing was in 'Burlington joint 4s, Union Pacific convertible fours, Wabash Debenture B., and Mexican Central first, income bonds. ■ In each of these issues the support was very fair, although the big interests who bought would only take bonds at substantial reductions. The second-class railroad issues1 were generally * lower but- it was noticeable that very "few ;gilt-edged bontls came to market.. Government issues eased oft' fractional. l.v when it was known that the Treasury purchases were'Completed. Total sales, §3,852,000
■ There has been some very good selling of Amalganfa’ted Copper, quite apart from its sympathetic break with the rest of the market. The official reply to its disgruntled salesman’s statements of the stock of copper in hand was by no means satisfactory and did nothing to revive pu lie confidence. As a matter of actual fact, the Amalgamated 'Copper Co., lias on hand a very large block of 17 cent,copper, which’it cannot sell in thq present declining deninnd. The! attempt to corner the copper market is very nearly a repetition of that of Secretan’s famous pool of unhappy memory, and as both London and 1’aris are bearish, and quite prepared to sell copper,’it'will be interesting to know wliat the Amalgamated Company will do about it.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.