FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A SENSATIONAL RALLY ON THE ACTION OF THE TRE Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Oct 1, 1902;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6 FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
& SENSATIONAL ’BALLY ON THE ACTION OF THE TREASURY.
The opening, having tlie example of the London market showing advances of from 2 to 5 points before it, was tremendously strong, and quotations were in some cases 4 points above the closing figures of the previous night. After the early ad-vanee, how ever, tlie market checked somewhat and for an hour or so it looked as if the rally would not hold. The view of Secretary Shaw’s action, however, became increasingly favorable aS the day progressed, and when a very marked bull-movement in the Reading issues and other hard coalers developed in the afternoon trading, there was a stampede of ihe shorts to cover, on tlie idea that some soli loment of tlie coal strike was indicated. The close was strong and at the best of ihe day.
Among the Railroad stocks. St. Paul, with a nine point advance, recovered all its previous day’s decline, and tlie other Grangers and Pacifies advanced from two to five points. .Missouri Pacific was the strongest of the Gould stocks, but all these gained several points. New York Central was marked up over four points easily, and there was no stock in die junior Vanderbilts offering. Read irg. with a gain of ft points was Lhe leader of the Lintliracite stocks which advanced from two to five points. Pennsylvania and tlie soft coalers .were very strong.
The Industrials shared the general strength wit 11 (lie principal advances in United States Steel, Amalgamated Copper, the independent steel stocks an? tlie stocks affected by the lead consolidation. The Tractions were very firm with the principal activity and strength in Manhattan.
more or less indifferent on the point. • It is argued that the relief'afforded was all that the occasion called for.
Call money opened at IS/, eased off to about W, advanced again to 19/> and then steadily declined throughout the day closing at 3/ freely offered. From the strength early in the day and the subsequent action it looked as if some lenders had overstayed their market.
Rates in tlie loan crowd were 7/ to 8/. There was a strong effort to mark them down to 0/ but there was too much stock lending to make it practicable.' and although it was said, there was some short interest in the market the borrowing demand certainly did not show it. .
Louisville was tJie exception to tlie general strength, although after showing considerable de-pre-<don early ,n tlie day it made a very respectable rally before tlie close. It is increasingly probable that tlie extensive bull account put up on the purchase of tlie IlnwIvy-Gates holdings by Morgan & Co. ha.* been badly eanghr. In spite of Mr. J. P. Moigan’s assurance that all stockholders would lie protected, there is nothing to show that more than 5/ d.vidend is promised, to sav nothing of a guarantee.	'	.
The ten point rally in St. I’aul was one of tlie seiis.it.miis of a remarkable day’s trading and was based upon tlie belief that there was practically no public stock to liquidate, and that what had been sold lmd liven to protect stocks elsewhere. Tlie r’tandaid L’ll interets was reported as the principal buyer, and in spite ol tin- fact that no action was taken at tin- anmi.tl meeting it is believed by people likely to know. Hint some rights will be iortbeoming tins winter.
Insiders were reported to be buyers of Manhat1.in. and it seemed to have powerful friends elsewhere. It was claimed tliat tlie increasing use .if electricity would make it more or less nidi pendent of the coal situation, and that the oirly operation of the western side of the system under the row traction had not been discounted market-v. 1st.
Tlie marked strength in Pennsylvania wins, of course, partly due to tlie improved money situation •but was helped by buying for a strong speculative interest, known to be very bullish in the recent past. Baltimore & Ohio and Ches-apeake S.Obio were bot.li beuefitted by the belief that the weak ■p5ol holdings in them had been shaken out.
Tlie inside interests in Missouri Pacific were the principal factors in the recovery of that stock, au'd brokers usually trading for them were credited with ihe purchn.se of at least 10.000 shares below i!2 in Monday’s demoralized market.
The advance in Illinois Central was on very good buying 'and it also bem-litted by the knowledge tliat it would be protected, in the Louisville deal.
Flower i& Co. bid up die price of St. Paul five points m tlie early trading before iliey succeeded in getting 1.500 shares of stock.
The sharp rally in Atchison disclosed a considerable short interest and tlie stock was none too plentiful in.the loan crowd.
. "•Canadian interests were good buyers of Canadian Pacific and also contributed to the advance in the ’’Soo" stocks.
It is noticeable that United States Steel 'ins befyi remaikably well supported throughout tlie recent distrubanve. and’, although some of th“ strength was doubtless due to inside buying held for ipwestiiiieut. and tliat the speculative account open proved to be surprisingly small.
National Lead showed some early strength, but was sold on the iidvamo on lhe idea that all the good news was out. and that the notation of new •issues for tlie combination in such a money market as tic present might be a matter of some difficulty.
If lhe ticker talks, as people say it does, it was shouting at tlie close tliat the coal strike was settled. The advance iu Reading was sensational enough, but all the other anthracite stocks showed strength in sympathy. It may be. however, that when the ticker talks it says what it is told to say, tind the move in Reading was in some quarters credited to one of tlie shrewdest operators iu the Street, believed to have been left long of the stock when the competitive .'buying stopped, some time ago. The move luid all the marks of tliat fine Italian hand and it is difficult to think of anybody else with sufficient courage to d.o the same thing in such a market. ,
London was a lighter trader than might have been expected from’’the activity and strength on the other side, aud the inference drawn was naturally that the early strength there was mainly due to the covering of local shorts. Out of some 40,000 shares dealt in probably 30,000 were purchases including B. & O. in some quantity, and most of the other active international stocks. The feeling on the other side was still somewhat unsettled, but upon the whole rather more confident with a disposition to, pick up cheap stock for a moderate tfirn at any rate.
There was a very fair day's trading in bonds and all the speculal ive issues shared the strength shown in the bond market . Wabash Bs, were noticeably strong, after some early uncertainty, and Union Pacific convertible 4s gave a good lead tb the other convertible issues. Consolidated Tobacco 4s were thought to be well bought. The high class railroad issues were hard and Government bonds firm. Total sales $4,240,000.
The legality of Secretary Shaw’s action in ac-ceptmg security other than Government bonds was questioned in some commission houses during the day. but it was generally admit ted that the matter ■would not be settled until the market woum be ,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.