FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: STOCKS BADLY DEMORALIZED BY CONTINUED DEAR MONEY. Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Sep 30, 1902;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 6 FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
STOCKS BADLY DEMORALIZED BY CON-
TINUED DEAR MONEY.
The opening was weak with an especially sharp decline in Louisville but. in tlfe early trading, the market was well in hand, and in spite of liqulda-ti-on through the commission houses undi London, ■and tlie judicious realizing of-pool stock elsewhere, there was evidence of -some support up -to the afternoon. Money, however, was never easy and when it was abvious that with 25/ bid there was no call money to be hud. the whole market began ito break and any stocks which, -could be ->>ld in quantity came out in blocks. The decline was tlie mfrre serious as it seemed as if the selling vame from important interests, ami it was perhaps asi well that some of tlie small pool stocks were protected by the impossibility of realizing in them in any quantity. The close was weak and at t'he lowest of the day.
Among the railroad stocks, Louisville broke over ten points. St. Taul nearly nine, and nearly all the active list from 3 to 5 points. The Gould issues were generally very weak, mid the Vanderbilts declined on small sales, although selling or--dors were withdrawn when it was apparent there was no market for the junior issues. The coalers were especially weak with Severe pressure in both tihe anthracite and bituminous issues and especially, the former.
The Industrial stocks did, not share the full extent of the break in the railroad issues, and it was evident that there was a much smaller 'bull account in them. All the active issues, -however, declined1, but there was good support in Copper and Steel stocks, although the independent steel -issues were very weak. The railroad equipment stocks were all down on the dhy. Tractions suffered severely with the most serious decline in Manhattan, birt considerable pressure also in Metropolitan anil P>. II. T.
Tlie break in Louisville was ascribed to liquidation largely by customers off a western house indem tided with recent movements in the stock. It was argued that if Mr. Morgan could take over the Gates holdings he would float them at a price which ■would leave an ample profit, and consequently people who had watched the progress of the old' Louisville corner bought stock on this theory. So much was this the case that London operators wore recent buyers on the information of an American operator,' at present in England, who might b. supposed to be well-informed. lA« it appears tli.i; the control will really be held by Atlantic Coast in something the same way that Pennsylvania controls Baltimore & Ohio, the outlook lor the minority stockholders is not bright.
were particularly weak. The better class railroad issues wore steady, and. Government bonds were fairly hard, with sales of the fives reported at 10G. Total sales $3,010,000.	,
It was notable that the best stocks suffered most in the day’s decline, probably for the reason that it was possible to sell them at some price, while a number of closely held' pool stocks could not be liquidated at any price otheT than an enormous concession. This was the reason for the comparatively small decline in the inactive pool stocks.
Western wire houses ■were among the heaviest sellers during the day and the Chicago end of the Gates clique was particularly active, the more so ns it was reported tlialt their leader had been a heavy seller of stock in London.
There seems very little probability of Secretary Shaw getting any 5/ Government bonds as sales were known to linve taken place alt 10G. It will he recollected that bis bid was 105.
The loaning rate was 20/ and of course anything in the loan crowd could be obtained in any quantity. A few small loans were made at 18/, but none of any consequence.
The Morgan,interest was credited with support ingorders in U. S. Steel and Southern {Railway.
There is a growing feeling of uurest among the smaller anthracite operators, and one of them yesterday said that they would be glad to make concessions to miners, but that they were in the hands of the railroads, and even if they mined coal, would find serious obstacles to shipping it. He eonsiilr ered the flooding ot the mines so serious that if the strike were declared off to-morrow it would be impossible to reach 50/ of the output in a month as a great number of miners have left the district.
The Gould stocks were a noticeably weak feature, and it was plain from the outset that the inside interest was at no ]>ains to protect its Street following. Manhattan was -especially weak, the -emote, so as a large block of stock not controlled by the insidfi.wa-3 'believed to have been thrown upon the market/ "
The weakness in Beading, but especially the common and second preferred was due to realizing by a prominent opeiator who overstayed the market and got left with the stock after the competitive buying reused. The strike outlook is by by no means cheerful and probably helped the decline.	•
One of the most serious declines on the day was in St. lhiul, where tlie absence of any announce ment involving rights on new stock at the annual meeting caused early liquidation, which was followed by realizing by some of the strongest interests m the Street.
A prominent Broad Street operator is credited xvjj.li the he.avy selling of Heading. Union Pacific. ptTve opn Pacific and Manhattan during the day, ami is also behevejh to have been a very lieavj seller recently in the London market.
Pennsylvania was prolbably sold to protect •holdings elsewhere, while renewal of pool realizing in its controlled stocks, but especially Baltimore & Ohio and Chesapeake & Ohio was roportedi
Atchison was freely sold by western -operators, and there was no effort made to support it by what are usually considered inside interests.
It was reported that the liquidation in B. R. T. and People's Gas came from) New York interests eosely identified with both properties.
Pool selling was reported in Southern Pacific and the realizing in Union Pacific seemed to come from the same source.
Illinois Central declined on western realizing and to some extent in sympathy witli Louisville.
Inside interests were heavy sellers of Missouri Pacific during the day.________
Amalgamated Copper upon the whole acted -as well as anything and its decline w-as relatively small. Trade reports continue favorable.
National Lead was weak on the idea that the disturbance in tlie market would imlitlnitely postpone operations for control.
Of some 75,000 shares dealt in. London sold at least 00,000. and continued to distribute stocks from the curb after llie close of the market on the other side. Tlie sales were well distributed throughout 1he active list and included Baltimore & Ohio, Southern Pacific. Union Pacific, Chesapeake & Ohio. St. Paul and U. S. Steel issues in some quantity. The heaviest selling of tlie past few days in London was ascribed to American operators at present in Europe.
Call monc-y opened rather easier than the market ex-pected. although 14/ was the lowest figure at which it loaned in any quantity. It closed at 35't bid. One broker came in to loan money in the laic afternoon, and the crowd around him was so great that to people unacquainted with the fact it looked as if a r,ew member had appeared on the floor. All lie had to loan was taken almost before he could get the figures out of his mouth.
There was only a moderate day’s trading in bonds, but tlie active issues shared to a greater or less extent the decline in the stock market. All the convertible issues showed serious declines, while Wabash Bs, Gireen Buy Bs and Tobacco 4e
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.