FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A SEVERE DECLINE. Liquidation Commences ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 5, 1903;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
■	4 severe decline.
^liquidation Commence Early anti Becomes General, i ’-.	Accompanied by Pressure, from Traders.
''' Xondon did not give any particular load at the -opening and the foreign houses were only moderate selltiers.’but froin the outset the market was depressed. The iselling at first was confined to the V. S. Steel stocks Inert Cnnsolidnioil Gas, where there seemed to be a fair .1 amount of news to encourage the bearish professional ielement, but as the day progressed liquidation extended _|to all the active stocks-to a greater or less degree and . | the market became very weak, with a perceptibly more i nervous tone apparent in the Street. There was nothing in tne way ol specific news to account for the new outbreak of selling. The absence of support front the largci interests was noticeable throughout the day and stocks continued very weak up to the close, only relieved in a very inconsiderable degree by the covering of traders shorts. The announced increase of 9G.OOtt.nOO in the Consolidated Gas capitaliraition was one of the few news developments, attd it is a curious commentary on the state of the market that more attention would have been paid twelve niontbs ago to the rights than to the. -new stock issue. The Street was of course full of rumors not one of which matured, attd most of which were either impossible on the face of them or guesses based upon the character of the selling.	.	.
Where the nuirkct was all moving one way it is sufficient to say that declines of from two to three points were recorded in Atchison common. Baltimore Al Ohio, Delaware A- Hudson. St. l’mn. Illinois Central, Louisville, Union Pacific. and Wabash preferred, and of a ■point or more- in Canadian Pacific. Chesapeake At Ohio, Eric common. Mexican Central. Norfolk. Pennsylvania, Heading, the Ibmk Island issues. Southern Bnilway. Southern Pacino ami Wabash common.
The decline in the industrial issues was eipially general with th.- principal pressure in tlie I.. S. Steel issues. Peoples Gas. Amalgamated Copper. American Sugar and all the railroad equipment issues. Consolidated Ghs’l'st seven and a half points. Tile tractions jhared the general depression with the principal activity and decline in B. 11. T.
GlINEItAI. INFLUENCES
. Harris. Gate. A- Co. wore sellers of stocks all round the room in considerable quantities.
The bond market wa- a.-live ami weak, with vigorous pressure apparent in WTibash Bs. I nion Pacific convertibles. Steel .Is. ltock Island -Is. Tobacco -Is and New York Central fi’.-js. Government bonds were steady and featureless. Total sales, ^l.'.7'27.ooi>.
The offering of some considerable blocks of bonds at one. and even two. points below the market quotations subject to the taking ot a quantity of noi less than 91.000.0fHI has been reported in several places and accounts for the depression in the bond market.
As call money was a trill.- harder most of the business in th" loan crowd was done at a". . Atchison common was in eoiisid. ruble demand at 11 -_-G . while Xew York Central. hwmMivr preferred. Illinois Central and one or tw.. very inactive stocks were wanted well below the ruling rate. Most of the business in Now York Central was done nt 1 g--.	Canadian Pacific
was in brisk demand lint.
report that the now management may commcne.' its operation- by passing the dividend on the common.
Tlie street opinion is still that the western speculative element is not seriously concerned in the pres-nt liquidation and hud taken in all sail bv the time th" break culminating in Deeonibcr was over. A good many of flic Pittsburg people who could show large resources on paper nftcr tlie Steel consolidation were prnctiea'ly cleaned out then, and the present liquidation is not believed to come from that source.
T.omlen trrd.-'l in 1 .1.00.0 shares only. Inn these were all sides. They -were principally in lhe Steel stocks, but included Atchi-on common and S. inborn Pacific in moderate quantity. The market on the other side lias undoubtedly been affected bv the depression in th.- min- I ing and copper stocks and a number of l..-n.b>n operators: wl-.o hail turned to tlm American list, on the idea that ithere should i>e some rally after the long dcclim.-. have become dirheartened and have sold out.
V. S. Ib-alty was weak is. spite of the fa<-t that it was known .-ailv that a statement of tlie company s position mighi bo expeetcil during the day. llie selling gave the impression that the weakness lay not in tm. company itself but. among the people who lrivo financial it. A glance at the statement will show that tins i.-about the only way to account for ilia severe decline.
.From-the heavy selling of Steel common lllld preferred through Was-ermann Bros., l.cc. Kretelnmtr A' Co.. Pearl A- Co. ami Vim l-imbtirgh A- Atterbury, rite inference drawn was that there was ll renewal -it liquidation by Pitl-burg bolder-. It wa- said also, on doubtful authority. that ---m-- selling orders -ame from Saratoga. The best support was given by Coster. Knapp A' (.<».. presumably acting for th.- Morgan interest.
lt.tn.WAYS.
The closing out of some I’nion Pu.-ifi,- li.-ld in lonn-was rcporti <1.
The closing out of a weak account in 11'111111-11 debenture lh was reported.
Pennsylvania held as wr-Il as anything and was materially liel|>ed by the dune earnings. They effectually 'disposed of stories recently current of decline of earnings.	___________________
The selling of Louisville was mostly for some southern interests which have come into tlie market as sellers , in tlie recent past, not only in this stock but in several others.
Brooklyn Lapid Transit was thrown over by the faithful following that 1ms been buying it on tlie summer earnings for small rallies in the recent past. Traders found a ratlu-r weak scattering bull account ami pressed the stock for sale with some success.
T’hc renewed weakness in Atchison was very discouraging to the street as the demand for it in the loan crowd and its long decline encouraged the belief that it litril been thoroughly sold out. The selling was not traceable Ito any of the sources quoted a fortnight ago. mid seemed •to come from people wiio wen- obliged to protect commitments elsewhere.
Cnnndinn Bacilli- hold well considering the bearish lattitudc of the local traders. It is becoming recognized ithnt«thc real market for the stock is in London or Montreal. and although sonic of the professional operators ■would like io see it sell nearer the price of other 5% • issues, it is conccdinl tlmt the security of the stock hero -in a large measure protects it.
INDUSTIIIALS.
Some of the selling orders round the room during the day wore said to have come from Bielnniuul. Va., where there is an important interest in Virginiu, Caro-Ilina Chemical.
The renewed liquidation in Virginia Curolinn Chemical was disturbing, mid was tnken by tin- street to indicate that the reports that the pool laid unloaded were nut well founded. •	'	’
Consolidated Gas sold off on the nnnounced new issue of $0,000,000 stock, and the street, as it usually docs now, paid more attention to the increased capitalization than to tlm rights on tlm new stock.	•
Lower Wall Htrcct. is not bullish on Sugar at present and talks of lower prices for the meeting of congress, il only to give certain Washington interests an inducement to expedite tlm Cuban reciprocity treatment.
While the weakness in the U. S. Steel issues may hove borne some rofcrcncc to tlm resignation of Mr. , Schwab a good many people do not regard the change -u a bear argument, and more attention is pnid to the
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.