FEATURES OF THE MARKET: A SHARP RALLY. Stocks Open Firmer and Advance ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 25, 1905;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 4
' Northern.iPacific continued • to -show -the strength developed on Tiieaaajr ~whon-the-rest of the maiket^waa inclined. to sell ■ off. There is no attempt to manipulate lodi o high priced -stock.' Substantially aU the buying can ba described, as straightforward , investment, based on a knowledge of the road’s financial position. •	.
The secret of tlie strength in Ontario & Western probably lies, in the knowledge that New Haven has settled its differences with New York Central and made an amicable arrangement for financing .Ontario. Xondon got news of the improved Bitudtion early and picked up most of the cheap stock in the morning.	_	.
’.. Although Jacob Field* sold 35.000 Union Tacific, traders did not take, it very seriously. The Btock was too readily absorbed to disturb the markot, and it should bo remembered that the same, operator recently executed some heavy orders to support.
The buying of Baltimore & Ohio was considered very good. It explains the steadiness in the priee during the recent depression. People who ought to know are confident- of an advance iu the dividend in July.
Tondon had a very strong bull point on Southern Pacific and was estimated to have bought at least 15.000 shares. This buying is good, but the dividend rumors do not come from the right quarters.
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
. A SHARP RALLY.
‘ Stocks Open Firmer and Advance Throughout, Gaining Strength Up to Hie Close*
INDUSTRIALS.	f
American Locomotive Tallied-better than it bus done throughout the very considerable decline of tho recent past. People are inclined to buy it now who wore very bearish when the stock was selling over 60. They do not believe that it was then worth that price, but say the large business of tho railroad equipment companies at present Justifies a good rally.
.Iu spite of fairly heavy spiling by S. TT. F. Poll & Co. in both the preferred and common stocks and by Wolf Bros, in rhe former. U. S. Steel issues acted well. London was buying1 back same of the stock recently sold for foreigrn account. Foreign houses reported the Mor-gran following on the other side more aggressively bullish.
Some of the buying orders in Amalgamated Copper looked as if they came from Boston. Houses who have been credited with doing business for Lawson, and were supposed to be short recently, picked up a good deal of stock.
Flower <& Co. were again tho best buyers of Amalgamated Copper, taking something like 10.000 shares. Their following is rather more aggressive than it was and seems to-have averaged on the last break.
An active Standard Oil house was a good buyer of Steel pfd.
There was a very general response to the strengii’, shown in London before our openiug. It was emphasized by substantial buying for arbitrage account and in almost every case the opening quotations were well above the last prices of the previous day. The market, continued .to advance with short pauses but no recessions gaining ground consistently in spite of experimental short sales by the traders who were slow to admit the change iu conditions. The feature was the indefinable but quite tangible chnmre in street sentiment. "Rumors wore taken at better than their face value, and wore listened tn •with, respect even where they were instrinsiciilly improbable. There wns some thing better than rumor in the ^knowledge that, the groat railroad interests of the northwest had established amicable relations after their long fight. This was probably behind a revival of other tale* current and traded upon a month ago. One of those •was an adjustment, of the Equitable matter which would !indeed be-mt enormous relief to Wall street. lit tin* afternoon the market was dull but firm. Floor trader* had been inclined tn put nut shorts, arguing that such a policy had proved remunerative on every rally for a - month past. These shorts, however, were of an experimental character and were in many cnses ..over cd before the close. At tho last tho market wn« very firm and substantially nt tho best of the day. "Professionals ■who sold stocks bought early reported them very readilv taken.
Among the railroad stock* Northern Pacific gained nearly seven points and advances of from two to.tbr*BB points were recorded in Atchison. B A- 0.. Canadian Pacific. Chesapeake Jr Ohio. St. Paul. Erie. Louisville. "Missouri Pacific. Now "Fork Central. "Rending. Southern Pacific and others, and of four points in Union Pacific, while there were no declines of consequence.
The industrial* were equally strong with similar a ‘ •Tartces in the railroad equipment issue*, the imlopondo**• steel stocks. Copper. Smelter*, -end U. S. Steel pfd. I». R. T. was tho strongest of tho tractions.
GENERAL INFLUENCES.
Transactions for foreign account were an important source of strength throughout the forenoon. Purchase* i through the arbitrage houses probably exceeded 40.000 'shares. They included Union Pacific. Southern Pacific.
•	TT. S. Steel. Erie. Ontario A- Western ami "Reading in considerable quantity.
Arbitrage houses reported a generally improved son-[timent on the other side. There •.•as more disposition to (take on new commitments than might have been expected i within three days of what is certain tr- be a rather anxious I settlement. The secret of tho strength probably lie.* in |+he fact that, tho powerful Morgan and TLirriman fol-ilowings in London have both boon buying stocks with
•	considerable confidence.
• Arbitrage houses for tho most part, went home long J of the market, believing that London would respond be-I fore our opening to the strength developed here. There | is probably some bear account on the other side which is ’likely to cover before the settlement on Monday.
: There was a distinct movement to cover shorts fBmong the uptown traders, who arc not so bearish ns they twere. They are only trading cautiously for a moderate 'rally, hut believe for tho most part that, good leadership would develop an important recovery probably extending well into August.
Trading in bond* was in moderate volume, but the ^one •was good. The be«t advance wa* in Union Pacific convertibles, but there was strength in Burlington joint 4a. Steel 5s. Tobacco 4s and the Wabash issues.’ Government bonds were steady and featureless. Total sales. $2,319,000.
Tn the loan chowd. the general mtc was 21': to rT-he demand was not so good as on Tuesday. Some stocks were returned and the new short interest was light except perhaps in B. A* O.. which loaned well. Stocks generally wore plentiful and easy to borrow.
•	"Rumors were current towards the close that the inter-etate.-.CommeTCP commission ami the railroad interest* flbad reached an understanding on rate legislation.
. .Tacofe Field and other traders who were telling Blocks in the morning covered their shorts on tho afternoon rally.
railways.
‘ B. R. T. acted, bettor than it ha* done lately, opening *fjrm and moving as if there was not much stock in the market. The Brady following seems to have been rather (heavily committed elsewhere, and Jias not been paying onuch attention to the stock, but the buying is really good and ought to be well informed. This sinnmer’s earnings will easily pass all records, and nothing seems to fcold the stock down except, the franchise tax decision, which good judges say will be found to have been largely discounted.
While the buying of Erie is good, the people who have been picking it up on the decline say that the policy of putting all the earnings into the road will be continued. although^tho amount necessary to pay the full 'dividend on the Second preferred is so small that a con-ceiiion in that respect 'is to be expected. The earnings •5or April of this and other coal roads are said to have been the largest in their history.
* The Harriman stocks made a good showing in tho Jfirat few minutes’ trading. Union Pacific begins to show the effect of the steady absorption of the stock which has
■ beer in progress for some day* past. C. B. McDonald was'the principal buyer,of Southern Pacific early, and ean tupially.acpbncT on a'good following in his operations fanthe Harriman atoeks. . -■	?	-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.