FEATURES OF THE MARKET: Stocks Open Firmer and Advance Throughout the ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 6, 1905;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 4
Stocks OpenFirmer	'Throughout the Day,
■ some falling off from that of Wednesday and Thursday, but throughout the afternoon the tone was inn. The advance in Union Pacific gave about the best lead to the market, as it is a stock which always commands a good following, inspiring more confidence than such issua as Consolidated and People’s Gas. There was a good deal of covering 'of shorts round the room during the day, and it is to be presumed that the bear acount showed a marked reduction at the close. As there is no loan market on Fridays, this point could not be. definitely ascertained, but could be fairly inferred from tlie character of the buying. There was some conservative profit-taking before the close and probably a further distribution of long stock which had been carried through the Tecont declines, but in spite of this the last prices were not far from the Lest of the day. The news developments did not exercics any very definite influence.
Gains of over three points in Union Pacific and St. Paul, and of two points or more in Louisville, New York Central and Southern Pacific were the features of the railroad list, while advances of a point and upwards were the rule with few exceptions.
The industrials were equally firm with the best gains in the railroad equipment isues and the independent steel stocks. Amalgamated Copper and tha U. S. Steel issues made substantial advances. Tractions were firm and Gas stocks very strong.
GENERAL INFLUENCES.
London was quite a heavy trader, selling about 30,000 shares on balance, but buying 20,000 shares of Union Pacific. The heaviest of the foreign sales were made on the advance in the first hour. London sentiment at the close showed some improvement. It had Loon disturbed before our opening by the heavy liquidation for the Continent, and doubts as to whether this market would take the stock readily. Those fears proved to be groundless, and traders on the curb in London were moro disposed tn buy than to sell. They had a very strong bull point on Union Pacific, and picked up a good deal of the stock at the opening before the rally.
Tn the bond market lhe feature was the rapid -recovery in Union .Pacific convertibles. There was a fairly active market for Tobacco 4s. Si col 5s. and Th»<-k Island 4«. Consolidated Ga< convertibles made a further advance. Government bonds wore steady asd featiirelo«,s. Total sales $2,500,000.
The movement to cover shorts b.v the traders was quite extensive. One active operator on the floor covered n line not far short of 20.000 shares and had many imitators. There is still an active bear party, however, whose members any that stock is very easy to borrow.
IT. G. Weil was said t.o Jinve covered a considerable line of short? during the day.
RAILWAYS.
The heavy tone in M. R. T. issues was a reflection of the decline in Loudon, where there is the best market for these stocks. The Dutch stockholders whose voice is becoming increasingly powerful in the councils of the road arc no longer anxious for nu immediate dividend on the preferred. The knowledge of this caused some London selling.
There dues not seem to b-* much Erie first preferred «n the market nt present, bur there has been a very fjir absorption of the stock for investment. It is taken that the «<’c?md nfd. will ger its dividend in the near future, esp< dally n* a very small sum i? necc^sarv to y.ut it on a full 4% ba«l<. This issue is living quietly absorbed nl.^o.
After a fair advance in the morning there swmed to be sonic? Canadian Pacific for sale, and some of the early gain was lost. London has been a seller for sonic time past, as there is a feeling over there that the boom in Canadian stocks was u good deal overdone. Montreal was supporting, but only on recessions.
Union Pacific opened active and higher. It appears that the selling of Thursday was to a considerable extent from un individual holder of stocks, representing merely his opinion and not any change of attitude on the part of the larger interests. There was some disposition to cover shorts.
Pending showed significant strength from the opening. The report that the .Tul.v dividend will be making 4% for the year, comes from sources which command respect. This would indicate n permanent 5% basis after this year. The buying was among the best in the mnrkct.
-Northern Pacific recovered practically nil its dividend on the day’s advance. There is still a very uncertain market for the stock but there has been a fair amount of investment buying. Traders regard it as a rich man’s security and report that it docs not attract the commission houses.
B. R. T. made a good showing mid is still well bought. The Brady following were among the most aggressive of the street cliques, rallying People’s Gas with success and even taking hold of their old favorite, Rubber Goods, which has been rather weak of late.
Charles G. Gat?s <Sr Co. checked the advance in Union Pacific by sales of a considerable amount of stock on a scale up in the early afternoon. There was a good deal of selling of a similar character in other parts of the room.
On the early bulge in Union Pacific. .Tncob Field sold 5,000 shares. He was thought to have bought some stock at the close on Thursday, but with his following seems to be still bearish on the general market.
Harriman brokers were reported the principal buyers in the rally in Union Pacific at the close.
Western wire houses bought a very fair amount of St. Paul in the aggregate.
INDUSTRIALS.
It was fairly obvious in rhe last few minutes that tho Brady contingent knew very %»ell what they were doing when they bought People’s Gas in the morning. It is to be presumed that they had excellent reason for believing that the legislature would turn down the soventy-fivc-cent gas ordinance, and that the advance of 4 points in the last five minutes was the consequence. It is the more satisfactory to the control as tho Illiuois legislature adjourns for two years.
There is very little doubt that the people who sold Consolidated Gas short on Wednesday and Thursday put themselves into the hands of Thomas F. Ryan, who is believed to have been by far the heaviest buyer through the Standard Oil channels. It is thought that somo of the Albany politicians misjudged the ^prospects for the gas bills and had, to cover at a consid-erablc loss.
Horrick, Berg de Co. were among the conspicuous early buyers of Steel preferred and . attracted some following among the floor traders. The stock is considered to have acted very well in view of the declines elsewhere. It has the advantage in the -rally that stock has not been bought to protect and consequently will not come out on smell advances.
G. B. Buchanan was active on the bull aide in American Locomotive bidding up the stock with a fair amount of success. There is some reason to think that the greater part" of the weak bull account has been liquidated, al-tbough-people dose to the company-still believe the price
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.