FEATURES OF THE MARKET: BAD BREAK IN STOCKS. After Early Strength ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 2, 1906; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 4
featuresofthemarket
BAD BREAK IN STOCKS. ■ .'
After Early Strength ■;BricesCollapse on Enormous
-	■ . '	.	'■ . Liquidation.	-
The stock market opened-with only fair "activity and moderate strength. Prices advanced slightly for a little while after the opening but within an hour heaviness developed as long stock began to come oh the market. Until the noon hour trading was rather dull though at declining prices, but about that time the pressure on the market increased and very , soon a sharp break was in progress. Various attempts were made to stem the tide, but they were vain, and under a veritable flood of selling the market broke to the lowest point which it had reached this
lion that atleast 60,000 shares of.this morning’s sales rep-| tesented the feeding-out of long stock rather than short selling. ‘ -A	'
■ Brokers from the floor reported that there were orders to buy Reading % point below the market’and these orders were largely responsible for holding the price of that stock for a time. ■	'	’’
.	- The decline was started by the weakness of St. Paul.
This was partially explained hy-the publication of the railroad’s earnings for March, which showed an increase in the gross earnings, but a small decrease in the net revenue.
year.	■	’
■ Many of the active issues made new low records and some high priced stocks were thrown overboard. The break was started by weakness in St. Paul, which at one time showed a decline of 8% points. Toward the close the market was thoroughly demoralized and many active stocks broke points between sales. So for instance Reading for which there seemed to be no bidders just before the gong rang. All kinds of rumors were circulated and there werd stories of trouble and failures to come, but none of these were in definite shape.
. The rise in call money rates, the report of Commissioner Garfield .against the Standard Oil Co. and the bad statement of earnings by St. Paul combined with another attack from the bear element were said to be responsible for the decline. A good many stocks bought on Saturday and Monday on expectation of a rally were thrown overboard and it was also reported that some of the insurance companies were liquidating their investment holdings. Transactions exceeded 1,400,000 shares.
Among the railroad stocks Union Pacific was the most active. After selling at 147% it broke 5 points. This is the sharpest decline that has occurred in this stock this year. Reading lost nearly 7 points from the high price of the morning, reaching a new low record for the year. After selling at 118% there appeared to be no demand until it broke to 11716. The Hill stocks sold off sharply. Gt. Northern preferred declined 10% points and Northern Pacific 8% points, closing at the very lowest. There was not a railroad stock on the list that did'not show1 a heavy decline.	’	.
Among the industrials, Amalgamated Copper showed support at times but finally broke through the low point made last week, although it did not reach the low record for the year. Smelters, which was bid up to 149% on Monday, declined to 143, and for some of tlie specialties there appeared to be no markbt to speak of. Tlie Steel issues were as weak as anything with especial pressure against the preferred, though most of the trading was in the common. B. R. T. was weak at 74.
The market advices of the Gates firm sent out on Monday evening were very bullish and predicted a big bull market during the summer, with prices way above anything that had been seen so far.
While this is a holiday on the London Stock Exchange and arbitrageurs arc therefore not busy, there have been some direct selling orders cabled over from London, aggregating a considerable amount of those stocks which the Londoners bought last week. Tlie cables make no mention of any news on which this selling may be based.
The selling of Great Northern again.disturbed sentiment. 'file stock eponed at 296% and broke to 285. The report that tlie company was to buy out the interest of the Northern Pacific in the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy was used us a bear argument.
.The weakness in Consolidated Gas was also a disturbing factor, as after its sharp rise since Saturday it was thought that interests identified with the company were ready to buy the stock. The buying now appears to have come, mainly from the short interest.
What is most disturbing to the speculative, community is that these shnrp declines in stnndard investment issues are not accompanied by any plausible rumors cr explanations.
The declines canie so suddenly that a great many people who bought stocks on Saturday and Monday and who had expected that the rally would continue over the day were caught unawares and were forced to close out.
Hooley. Leamard & Co., who were large buyers on Monday, were among the heavy sellers.
Five hundred shares of St. Paul preferred sold at 178, a new low record. It opened at 180. This is strictly an investment stock.
New York Central made a new low’ record at 131, the previous low being 132, and Missouri Pacific made a new-low record at 87%,
The selling which broke St. l’aul to the new low price came largely from Post & Flagg.
The sharp break shortly after 2 o’clock was to some extent due to heavy selling led by Jacob Field, who was reported to have closed out his stocks which he had bought earlier in the day.
It is said that two trust companies alone locked up 85,000,000 to-day in compliance with thv law requiring such institutions to carry a reserve.	.
There was a fair demand lor stocks in the loan crowd, with rates at 69? •
The rumor on the floor was tlmt the selling of St. Paul represented the liquidation of treasury stock which it Was said was being sold in small lots.
It is reported from the floor that there has been a great deal of selling by the Gates people this morning.
Amalgamated Coppcfr received the best support of any stock on the list, but. buying orders were apparently on n scale down. Large amounts were taken at 103%, but from that point the stock dropped abruptly.
It being a holiday in London, the. bulls were unable to influence the market here by bidding up prices on the other side, and they hud to do their buying in this market, which appeared to be less easy to manipulate than the more limited American department in London.
One of the curiosities of the opening was furnished by International Pump, which rose from 5G to 59 on a few transactions. On Monday this stock sold at 4G.
News of trouble in the anthracite mining districts caused some hesitation in the coal stocks. The opening of Reading was dull on a few hundred shares and with only a fraction advance.
Within fifteen minutes aftor the opening the market began to sell off. Activity increased on the decline, and it was apparent that the short interest was again exerting pressure on the market. In addition there was profit-taking on stocks bought on Saturday, and these combined influences prices could not withstand.
A good deal of uneasiness was created by the news from Washington’’that a vote on the rate bill in the senate was close at hand and that both those in favor of liberal court review and those against it were claiming a majority of votes, thus leaving the result doubtful. This was thought to be of great importance to the railroad interests and caused some selling of those stocks.
The excellent earnings for March -reported by the Erie Railroad were disregarded and discussion centered more on the possible losses of the company on account of the coal strike.	'
Bears were inclined to make capital out of the labor situation in France and reports of serious riots. Gables from Paris, however, indicate that the market there does not appear to be disturbed over the May day trouble.
Traders generally were hammering the mnrket on all soft spots as soon as they noticed that stock which had been bought to support prices last week was coming out on the advance.
■ After the high prices on the recovery had been established; the buying power appeared to diminish. It was plain that unless a concerted .effort were made to lift the market to a higher level, the support of those traders who .wore working for a further rally would be lost.
Wolf Bros, wcro again heavy sellers of stocks all round .the room.
Wormser l?id up Union Pacific in the early trading and Jacob Field, whose new firm starts to-day, was a bidder for the stock at 146%. A trader who has closely watched the dealings in .Union Pacific expresses the opin-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.