FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: RENEWED WEAKNESS WITH CONTINUED LIQUIDATI Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 15, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	...... ............. * 
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
RENEWED WEAKNESS ' WIT® CONTINUED UI-
'	'	'■	.	' QUIDATION:. ••	’ ;
A’o Response to Higher London Prices—Heaviness in the Forenoon and Severe Depression Up to the Close —Standard Oil Interests'Reported Heavy "	Sellers — Support: Merely..
From Shorts. ■	•
At the opening the market failed to respond to the higher range of prices sent from. London.' "They were not accompanied by any foreign buying orders, and a.class of investment buying "which was in evidence on'Monday and Tuesday was conspicuously absent. Nervousness was apparent from the opening, the more so as there was no concrete news. The market continued to sag throughout the forenoon when some depression was accounted for by the announced failure of the Pope Manufacturing Co. This while an important suspension hardly accounted for all the demoralized selling which followed. The selling orders were executed by the most important houses of the street and it could not be said that there was the slightest attempt to disguise their origin. In the last houT the market was about as demoralized as it could possibly be without un actual panic. If us everybody supposes the most powerful financial interests in the street are selling, it is of course to their interest not to let the market get out ot hand entirely, and this explains in some measure the character of the support. The absence of failures can only mean one thing, and that is the losses in this decline, like . that in the preceding one which culminated in March, have been borne by some of the wealthiest individuals in the United States. It is these individuals who in former times of stress have been the rock of strength, and without them the small investor is very feeble to check the break. The reasons for the weakness have been given over and over again. The administration is biaimed and Wall street has forgotten all about the retribution earned by the disclosures in the life insurance investigation. There was some small rally in the last few minutes, but nothing to indicate more than the covering of traders’ shorts.
Among the railroad stocks Union Pacific issues and Great Northern pfd. lost five points or more; Atlantic Coast, Delaware & Hudson four, and practically all the really active issues three points and upwards. The industrials were equally weak with the severest pressure in Amalgamated Copper and Smelters. The tractions were as badly demoralized as any group in the list.
St. Paul was especially disappointing to the traders. Before the opening here it sold equal to 123% in London. In spite of this, it opened at 122, the previous day’s close, and sold off on a few sales. It was this that caused the suspicion of manipulation to the general strength in London.
Sima attempt to harden Interborough issues was made, '■■•ut abandoned in the first few minutes. The inquiry before the Public Service Commission on actual operation has been bad enough, but it is said the financial investigation will be worse.
There is still only a very limited quantity of American Sugar in the Street. Specialists can probably trace all the stock sold short. A number of traders would like to take the hear side on the theory that Sugar is selling much above the present range for 7% industrials. The stock, however, is so well held, that surprisingly little of it has come out on the decline.
There was a generally expressed opinion in the Street that something reassuiing from Oyster Bay would do the market good at present Any such comfort, however, is expected to be found in Secretary Taft’s speech on Monday.
Putter & Gross, who gave valuable support to the market when it was at its weakest, were sellers of stocks in some quantity, notably Northern Pacific and Pennsylvania.
Houses which reported large transactions in small lots for bargain hunters on Monday and Tuesday, found a very disappointing showing this morning. There seemed to be some seale.buying orders, but most of them were well below the market, and some were even not reached on Monday's break.
In connection with rumors of banking trouble in Berlin, it may be said that one of the most prominent German banks was a buyer of stocks on a scale down on Monday. No orc is treating such rumors seriously.	.
Some of the weakness in New York Central has been due to a quite unexpected supply of long stock held abroad. Kmi’itli Naehod & K.uhne were conspicuous sellers, and other arbitrageurs had the stock for sale.
The opinion was very generally expressed that the rumors current were altogether too large for the occasion ind particularly those indicating financial unsoundness in corporations.
Houses with powerful political affiliations are inclined to take the view that the policy of the administration toward the railroads will be conciliatory, but that the pressure on the Standard Oil Corporation will be increased , rather than relaxed. Such houses have been sellers of industrial stocks, but are buyers of railroad issues.
London was probably a seller of stocks on balance, although the foreign transactions probably did not exceed 20 000 shares, with a fair qiant’ty on both sides of the book. The London market followed ours very close-'y, and the arbitrageurs consequently wure taking no chances.
Foreign houses think that foreign investment holdings of American stocks have come out in the recent past, but not to tile extent the bear element claims. Such ttek, in any case, cannot reach this market before Monday, August 20, ns the first boat after the settlement is on August 17.‘ It seems likely that some of the borrowing demand in New York Central, Pennsylvania, and probably Canadian Pacific also arises out of sales of stock to arrive.	’
Houses with early knowledge of the troubles of the Pope Manufacturing Co. sold stocks from the opening. One of these houses said that they considered the serious part of the matter was that thj company was active and prosperous enough, but was suffering from a shortage of capital common to many other concerns of the same class.
Traders were not altogether disposed to follow the market down. C. B. Macdonald bought Pennsylvania, wh'de Jncob Field nnd other active floor traders covered shorts on the afternoon recession. ■
Flower & Co. were very heavy sellers of stocks all Around the room and wore particularly active in Reading. Rutter & Gross and other Standard Oil houses also were .■onspicuous throughout the day. The only support accorded was when Htocks looked like getting out of hand.
Traction issues were demoralized. B. R. T. was as weak as the Interborough issues, while the underlying racurities of the latter, like Third avenue, which lost 10 points, were almost unsaleable. This is remarkable as many people think that dissolution of the Interborough would help them.
In the loan crowd the generul rate wus for renewals with a littlo new busines at 3'7 . at which rate industrial -stocks with the exception of the U. 8. Steel issues loaned. Pennsylvania was noticeably scarce and in strong lomand flat with every possibility of a premium In the near future. Reading loaned down to 2%, New York Central to 1% and Eric and Stoel common to 1 %%. A big short interest wus indicated.
The London settlement concludes to-day and if there uro to be any failures there of consequence these will be known before midday here. The close of banking hours In London, is 4 p. m. and within an hour it can be told whether nil checks went through. Any Important house, however, would not issue its check knowing It would not bo met, but would announce its own failure In the morning.
There is no use disguising the fact that the day’s liquidation gave every indication that some big interest had been forced to let go. Bankers say positively that no financial Institution Is In difficulties. They naturally do not commit themselves when asked as to the status of private institutions in tho Street and elsewhere.
The extant of some of the deeMnes Is noteworthy. There was an extrome fluctuation In Union* Pacific of over seven points, six in Reading, five in Northern Pacific, six in Great Northern, flvo In St. Pau! and as much in B. R. T. while Amalgamated Copper was at one time seven points ■ below the best price of the morning.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.