FEATURES OF THE MARKET: RALLY CONTINUED. Stocks Advance Throughout, ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Mar 18, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET
v	RALLY CONTINUED.
Stocks Advance Throughout, Closing at the Top—Good Investment Demand—Heavy Covering of Shorts,
At the opening the market was strong and generally 3/« to 1% above the closing* prices of the previous day with Reading and a few other stocks showing rather larger gains. The strength shown in London was an influence of some importance, especially as the arbitrage houses were buying stocks. It was plain also that the bear account had not all been covered in Friday’s advance and before the closing of the day a semi-panic among the shorts took place. On buying of this character there was a rapid advance culminating in marked strength at the last. One of the best features was the continued investment demand which was certainly as good or better than it has been after a panic in many years. The bank statement created a good deal of confidence us the heaviest of the liquidation did not show in the loans which nevertheless have been substantially reduced. The position in fact seems to be so sound that there is no great hurry to distribute stock carried for people who were helped over at the crisis, and those large purchases to protect the market which were necessary to save stocks from breaking away altogether. The closing prices were substantially the best of the day. The market was not particularly full of stocks after allowing for the large purchases made.
Among the railroad stocks Union Pacific advanced nearly six points and Reading five, while gains of one to three points were the rule with unimportant exceptions. The industrials were equally strong with sharp advances in Amalgamated Copper, and Smelters which gained six points. Consolidated Gas, U. S. Steel common and preferred and the independenrt steel stocks. The tractions shared the advance with the principal gain in B. It. T.
A groat deal of the strength in U. S. Steel was duo to the larg«e buying by John Wallace, who seemed to have an inexhaustible buying order.
Canadian Pacific to the amount of 35,000 shares arrived by the mail from Europe. The stock has been loaning fiat but this will relieve the market. It will be interesting to see whether with the technical bear position caused’by borrowing the-stock to arrive eliminated the price will be able to hold up on the general strength of the bull position.
II. Content was a very largo buyer of Atchison. This is not thought to be covering of shorts.
One of the best signs in the market was the stronger tone in the Morgan group, which did not rally so extensively ns the rest of the list on Friday. The foreign following of the Morgan party is responsible to a large degree and is buying for investment. London advices indicate that the reputation of J. P. Morgan there has bec-n materially enhanced by the panic at the expense of other well known interests.
It is said the buying in Reading is different to what it was before the break and that sonic plans in contemplation then were- abandoned and the stock bought liquidated.	.	,
Now that the smoke is beginning to clear away, the street is turning its attention to the wonderful report of United States Steel for DOC. The buying seems to be of an investment character and something more is heard of the possibility of an increase in the common dividend at the end of April. .London is very bullish, while local operators say that in view of the legislative pressure brought to bear on the railroads more attention will be directed to industrials and U. S. Steel by its full publication of earnings enjoys by far the greatest public confidence.
Stories current of the heavy losses of the leaders of the Standard Oil interest, when boiled, down really amount to the statement that their loss in prestige has been enormous. There is very little doubt that William Rockefeller's following has lost as heavily as anybody, but it is said that H. II. Rogers was carrying no Amalgamated Copper when the price broke, but has been buying Anaconda for some time past.
London afforded considerable assistance, buying at least 20,000 shares in the first half hour. There was, however, no particular disposition to trade on the curb in London and arbitrage houses did very little toward the lust. The foreign buying was very largely in the Morgan stocks.
A. Lipper & Co., who have been prominent on the short side at times in the recent past, bought about 15,000 shares of various stocks round the. room.
J. S. Bache A Co. reported exceptionally large buying orders for investment.
In the loan crowd the general rate was 6% with Pennsylvania in sonic demand at 5%. Canadian Pacific loaned at 1% which shows that the stock arriving by mail has not. yet been delivered. .Taken altogether there was still a fair demand for stocks although perhaps not so considerable as on Thursday.
E. II. Harriman’s country place in Virginia is at Orange. The rumor that the name was to be changed to Lemon was current but unconfirmed.
The volume of business was remarkable for a Saturday as 900,000 share days are few and far between. No less than three stocks crossed the 100,000 share mark which is itself remarkable, and the activity was well distributed as Reading, U. S. Steel and Amalgamated Copper, the greatly active stocks, were only responsible for a third of the total.	■
Nobody seems to havo lost anything in the decline. People who would have found it extremely difficult to lend stocks in any’ quantity on Thursday have secured a good deal of publicity as having been ^successful bears. It is very gratifying, of course, and develops the unprecedented : position that all the money lost on the long side was re- i covered on the short side.	,
One very striking feature of the panic was the way ! in which margins were put up. One powerful house with , 50,000 shares of two active stocks alone open for customers ■ reported that it never had to wait u moment for ample i margin and did not sell out a single customer. This is ‘ typical of a rich man's panic from a low level. The panics of pyramiding small traders of 1899 or 1901 showed exactly opposite commodities.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.