FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: A GENERAL DECLINE AFTER AN UNCERTAIN ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 20, 1907;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
A GENERAL DECLINE AFTER AN UNCERTAIN OPENING.
3 very ftood market. Another is that “inside” holdings of jtecl common are marketed, in anticipation of a contraction in business like that of 1903. There is certainly some evidence of distribution, and of manipulation to put out stock. U. S. Steel transfer offices are behind in their work of getting out new certificates for small investors.
Stocks Sell Off on a Moderate Volume of Transactions— Liquidation of Collateral in Loans Including
• Rock Island Issues Causes Selling All Around—A Weak Close
A’ear 1/owest.
Stocks opened quiet, and for the first few minutes developed no very definite trend. Before an hour had elapsed, however, the tendency was decidedly downward. Foreign houses were selling to a moderate extent, while commission houses were taking no position on the long side. The Street is in one of its depressed moods, and in such condition everything is a bear argument. The Treasury financing has been discussed until people who were quite convinced it was an admirable measure for restoring confidence, are now not quite sure what they think, but hope for the best, and talk about inflation. Such measures are, of course, always justified by success, and presumably the converse holds. One concrete fact worth 3 good deal of theorizing on points of economics and finance was the liquidation of a heavy line of Rock Island collateral 4s, evidently coming from some large loan. .This is no time for the selling of bonds, and the depressing influence of this liquidation, extended, as it has done for some days past, to other underlying issues of Rock Island and even of Atchison, exercised a bearish influence throughout the day’s trading. Stocks at no time showed any real disposition to rally. All lhe advance of the previous day was lost, and a little more. Even at the last, when traders covered shorts to even up on the day, they got their stock so easily that they went home more bearish than ever. There is nothing to be said for the market except that liquidation has to run its course, and it is obviously not concluded. The Street is not gambling, in the sense of having to finance any speculative position worth mentioning. It might help if the cotton and grain held back could come forward for export, even if it necessitated calling loans on those staples. It is about lime that liquidation were applied all around.
Among the railroad stocks Union Pacific, Reading, Pennsylvania, and New York Central lost two points and upward, Canadian Pacific and St. Paul three points or more, and everything else was weak. The industrials showed equal pressure, especially in the U. S. Steel issues and American Smelting. The tractions were weak, but not active.
In one important respect the technical position is materially better. Strong commission houses are now carrying a moderate amount of stock on margin for customers of undeniable credit and proved conservatism. Of course the Waldorf plungers of twelve months ago form a type which is sharply discouraged, but there is a conservative bull account develdping of a strong kind.
B. R. T. sold off after the opening to a moderate extent, as it is estimated that the requirements of the Utilities Commission in connection with the elevated road are liable to be expensive. The policy of the road, however, is to comply with such requirements as far as possible.
E. R. Chapman & Co. had some fairly heavy selling orders in St. Paul, Amalgamated Copper, and the Harriman stocks, and were estimated to have put out about 20,000 shares in the first hour. The house is credited with customers active on lhe bear side, but some traders thought that the impression of short selling was created deliberately.
There seems to be a steady liquidation in St. Paul, sufficiently under control to indicate that the most of it comes from the same q'larter. This is one of those cases where the last “inside" information proved worthless, involving in ’.lie recent past the liquidation of a loan of something in excess of S-l.fKIO.COO.
One conjectured source of liquidation is the realizing of stock by large financial interests in order to jl’ovide funds for participation in the banking syndicate which is to take up a portion of the Treasury U% notes. This is offered as one reason why the Morgan stocks do not develop any aggressive strength at present.
Berlin is still said to be selling stocks here. In the respect of overproduction and overextended credit the situation in Germany, according to houses closely aliiliated there, is not unlike ours in some respects. There is at least the same necessity for the conversion of securities into cash. A good deal of stock has come out from German sources, and is still being sold, including .Steel and Canadian Pacific in considerable quantity in the aggregnte-
In view of the wav’ in which the U. S. Steel issues were supported, and lhe protection accorded to other Morgan stocks, the action of the Erie issues lias had a depressing 1 fleet. especially upon foreign sentiment. Stock seems to come out on any strength, and London was again a seller of lhe common from the opening.
American Gar & Foundry loaned flat in the early borrowing, and was in demand in the loan crowd of the previous day. The bear position in the railway equipment stocks is more apparent than real, and probably consists of stock sold, but not yet delivered, for reasons of policy. The scarcity of orders for the coming year is the most general argument against such stocks current in the Street at present.
There is reason for believing that a large bond loan secured on Rock Island collaterals and Atchison as, with some of the underlying stocks of the Rock Island system, has been sold out. or is in process of liquidation. I here is nothing surprising in this selling. The most remarkable feature ,has been the absence of •liquidation hitherto from bond houses.
Some selling of stocks by Halle & Stieglitz, Atwood, Violett & Co., and other houses who were among the buyers on Monday, was the feature of the forenoon trading. This looked like stock which had been bought for a rally, and is clear evidence of the timidity of buyers at present
Arbitrage houses were credited with the sale of about 20 000 shares on balance, and did more business than hud been expected. It is doubtful if a good part of this really represented foreign selling. Some houses took the long side of the market over night, but failing to sell stocks in London had to realize here.
. This is called arbitrage selling, but really represents nothing more than a transaction done and undone in this market, and, therefore, lias no real bearing on the foreign attitude on our stocks. The actual foreign selling, however, has been considerable, as houses with German connections have done a good deal of quiet liquidation, although such sales have not come through the usual arbitrage channels.
S.	N. Warren £• Co., who were among the sellers of U s 'Steel on .Monday, sold again during the forenoon. Traders were inclined to think that the selling limit on the common has been reduced from 24 to 23, but believe that the ICecne-Morgan support for the present is still forthcoming, in the neighborhood of 22. Floor traders say that the support is too good to entourage short selling.
Spencer Trask & Co. were about the most impressive of the buyers after midday, giving considerable support to Union Pacific, Northern Pacific and Steel sinking fund bonds.	_______
O’Loughlin & Rudcll were estimated to have sold upwards of $1.M0,000 Rock Island 4s during the day. Pco pie in a position to know say that lhese bonds came from an I'X-member of the Moore combination.
Arbitrage houses bought a little stock over night, arguing that it would be necessary to rally the London market before our opening in order not to lose the sentimen-al effect of the Treasury financing.
In the loan crowd the general rate was 6% and over.
Amalgamated Copper loaned at 7%, and some other stocks not widely esteemed as collateral in loans; wcie lent at the same rate. New York Central, Pennsylvania, and some inactive industrials were in demand at 1% and fiat. The general demand for stocks was fairly good, but not very urgent.	_______ •
It could hardly have been said that the market activity was well distributed, as Reading, Union Pacific and Steel common together made up more than 40% of the business. Only seven other stocks exceeded 10,000 shares, which indicates a narrower market than on Monday.
All sorts of theoifiqs were current to account for the weakness in the Steel stocks. One is that the common is being held up to sell the preferred, for which there is not
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.