FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CLOSED DULL AND UNCERTAIN. After a quiet ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 22, 1910;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	........ ......
FEATURES OF THE MARKET;
CLOSED DULL AND UNCERTAIN.
After a quiet forenoon the market broke sharply on the reduction of the Lead dividend and failed to rally with any vigor. Sales 533,783 shares.
During the forenoon the feature of the stock market was the continuance of bullish operations in the copper stocks on persistent reiteration of rumors of a plan for curtailment of production of the metal, while hardly of less interest was heaviness in United States Steel and pronounced weakness in Rock Island on liquidation for out-oftown account But everything that transpired in the forenoon was far exceeded in interest by a sharp decline which occurred later in the day, following the announcement of a reduction of the dividend on National bead irom to 3%. The management of this company has always enjoyed a reputation for conservatism, and the wholly unexpected reduction of the dividend naturally came in the nature of a shock to the Street. Immediately following the publication of the news National Load stock broko violently until it Teachcd a level more than seventeen points under Wednesday’s close. From that level it rallied to the extent of a couple of .points or so, but yhowed a renewed tendency to decline at the end of the session. American Smelting & Refining, which is controlled by interests who are large holders of National Lead stock, declined hoavily in sympathy with the latter issue; and the whole list reacted sharply, the decline being, however, arrested at about two o'clock by the rendering of gard support to a number of the leading issues. The appearance of .this support induced some of the bears to cover their shorts and the market rallied in a half-hearted sort of way. The transactions totaled nearly 535,000 shares, and at the end of the session, declines were shown throughout the active list, the losses exceeding a point in nearly ail active issues. Amalgamated Copper directors met nt three o’clock and declared the regular dividend on the stock, while on Boston & Montane, a subsidiary of Amalgamated, the regular quarterly dividend was supplemented by a larger extra distribution than usual. No announcement of a plan for the amelioration of the present conditions in the copper trade was made aftci the tee tings of these companies.
Lead dividend, which came as a complete surprise and furnished thetraders with the ''airgument that a period of dividend reductions had Just- been? entered upon, since it was only a. couple of days sinceChicago & Alton had discontinued distribution to its stockholders. These, the traders said, were only the beginning..	.	.
■ Immediately following the announcement of the reduction of the National Lead dividend from 5% to 3% that company’s common stock broke violently to a level more than 10 points below Wednesday’s close before it met with any support. In the last stages of the decline the stock dropped a point and upwards between sales.
Some of the traders sold American Smelting & Refining on the idea that this company was a large holder of Lead stock.. There is considerable identity of ownership in the stocks of the two companies—that.is, certain well-known capitalists are. interested in both, but neither company owns stock of the other.
Before the publication of ■ the news regarding Lead, Rock Island was weak on liquidation by out-of-town speculators, and a number of other issues were'heavy from the same cause.
Support rendered.
Support was rendered to the market after its Sharp decline and prices rallied iii' the late afternoon,.although they did not rebound with anything like the same amount of vigor with which they had recovered'from breaks a couple of weeks ago. .
_ In Union Pacific the support took the form of the buying of 2,000 shares by two brokers at each % down. The stock fell to the point to which it had declined on the last break and then rallied. In Southern Pacific the support was not equally notable, but was no less effective.
, United States Steel declined about as much as anything on the list, while on the whole Amalgamated Copper acquitted itself well.	...
American Smelting & Refining, at its lowest level, showed a decline of 5% points from Wednesday’s close, but it subsequently rallied, although opinions were divided as to whether the buying which brought the rally meant anything more than the covering of dhorts. •
The traders put a bearish construction on the news that Referee Graham had upheld the franchise assessments on New York Central, but the stock met with support when put under pressure.
Narrow and irregular.
The opening was narrow nnd irregular, the general list showing little inclination to advance with the copper stocks, in which there was a continuance of manipulation for the rise. The dealings were almost wholly professional, and commission houses did not expect much public participation for tome time to come.
Although the copper stocks were the strongest part of the list, their strength did not correspond to the advance in London or to the sharp rise in the metal at that center. Utah, a narrow specialty, started at an advance of 1% points. Anneond.r, another narrow issue, scorea an initial gain of %, but American Smelting & Refining and Amalgamated Copper were about unchanged.
The strength in the eoppeT meta] market in London was not regarded as convincing evidence of trade improvement, since it was supposed that a short interest was created in the metal ;:t the same time that one was created in stocks. Bear selling, it was alleged, had been the main reason for the decline in the London metal price a couple of weeks ago to the lowest levels of the pan'e. Now there is covering in the metal, as in the stocks.
Borrowing demand for C-oppor.
. Although the general list did not respond to the strength in the coppers it maintained a firm tone. Trading was exceedingly narrow and even in the stocks which were most active, excepting the eopper issues, fluctuations were confined between % under and 14 over Wednesday's closing level.
Amalgamated Copper duplicated Wednesday’s high level and the general expectation was that the dividend would net be changed. Some of the traders argued that there might be an increase of the rate, basing this argu-meat on the theory that the insiders must know something good "about, the stock or they would not hold so much of it. I Nobody for a moment considered the possibility of e reduction.
There was an nc.tive demand for Amalgamated in the loan crowd, and whatever may be the prospects for trade improvement, it is evident that the bulls are making the fullest use of the technical position. Smelters did not respond well to the rise in Amalgamated, possibly for the reason that the short interest there is not extensive.
In none of the usual leaders. Steel, Rending. Union Pacific or Southern Pacific was there anything noteworthy.
Heaviness in Ilarvesler.
Dullness prevailed in the first hour, the list ut times betraying evidence of weakness, but meeting with support whenever this berame necessary. Sentiment was not as cheerful ns it had been earl'cr in the week.
The wicked hears attacked Union Pacific and Steel;-but perhaps these unhnppy individuals were more to l<e pitied than blamed, for their puni.-hment was expected to be swift and terrible, as the market is greatly oversold— maybe.	•
Whatever may have been the character of the selling of Union Pacific, the talk on the stock was better than the buying. Large interests were said to be accumulating in anticipation of the declaration next month, of the regulur quarterly dividend of 2’i‘zr, but as there has never been any doubt about continuance of this rate, it is hard to see why the approaching declaration should be regarded as a reason for heavy accumulation.
International Harvester, a stock in which, u few days ago, important accumulation was said to lie in progress, turned rather heavy on selling which appeared to represent real liquidation.
belling under cover.
In the early- part of the second hour the market was irregular; but, considering the great strength of the copper group, tile genera! list did not net in a very encouraging way. Traders seemed to be swinging around to the bear side.
It looked as if the strength of the copper group was availed of for liquidation at other points in the market, and perhaps it was engineered for that very purpose. Whi'le speculators derived encouragement from the strength in one part of the list, selling of other stocks went on under cover.
The market was very narrow, as was indicated by the fact that of 120 stocks kept on the blackboard of one of the big commission houses only 42 had opened at 11:15.
Toledo, St. Louis & Western preferred turned weak, after having been well supported on Wednesday. The selling appeared to represent liquidation .by holders who feared that the passing of the Alton dividend might cause a reduction of the rate on their stock.
There was bull talk on Republic Iron & Steel in rather good qu:irtors, but traders showed no inclination to take the bull side in such a narrow specialty.
City bonds weak.
The -market showed a tendency to become more active toward the end of the second hour; but the activity was not of the bullish kind, although it seemed as 1f the large interests were inclined to render support to offset the effect of liquidation, which appeared in several places.
It was asserted that an important conference dealing with the copiper situation had been held in London, and that in all probability some definite measures for restriction of output would be taken in the near future. Those who gave such information, however, had it only at second hand.
As a straw indicating some change in copper trade conditions, mention was made of the Improvement in value of Utah Copper rights. These rights about a week ago were quoted at ten cents a hundred but have now risen to five cents a share.
Strength continued in New York state canal bonds but this did not, of course, overcome the unfavorable impression created by the comparative failure of .the public offering a week ago. Only a few of the bonds are in speculative hands, and while state canal bonds showed improvement, the New York city 414% bonds were quoted at 100%, or about the lowest at which they have ever sold.
*As a possible indication of trade improvement, it was mentioned that lumber prices have strengthened materially in the local market in the last two or three days.
Foreign interest in our market was almost entirely confined to Amalgamated Copper. London bought about 6,000 shares of that stock, and did practically nothing else. Lead unsettles list.
In the early afternoon the market was .disturbed by the announcement of the reduction of the National
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.