FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CLOSED ACTIVE AND STRONG. Liquidation being ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jul 28, 1910;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
CLOSED ACTIVE AND STRONG.
Liquidation being no longer pressing, market rallied and shorts covered all through list. Sales 944,737 shares.
60, and both in London and here the belief prevailed that the liquidation had been completed. In London the New York rumors of the alleged straits of certain well known individuals were utterly discredited.
Good buying of Pennsylvania.
In the late afternoon the market was somewhat irregular, reacting moderately on realizing sales, and subsequently resuming its advance when this selling was Completed. Sentiment was more bullish, and brokers looked for a good volume of activity during the remainder of the week.	'	'
When the market iookc-d a little reactionary, about two o'clock, the traders argued that the Steel statement would not stand analysis; and that, as orders now being booked, are taken at a lower level of prices than those -which were effective in the June quarter, forthcoming statements would not compare favorably with that just published.	.
Well-sustained firmness was displayed ,by Pennsylvania, in which there appeared to be quite a little investment buying. It was argued that a falling off in steel traffic would in a measure he offset 'by the benefits from operation of the New York tunnels.
Tho recovery in Lehigh Valley in Philadelphia was regarded with considerable satisfaction, and the conviction that important liquidation was over appeared to be gaining in the Street.
IL was rumored when the market opened that certain holdings of stocks had been taken over by large interests, and that on account of these transactions the danger of a recurrence of forced liquidation was minimized. There was probably a great deal.of incorrect surmise and exaggeration in these stories, but the day's events showed that the market situation had been substantially imprqved. There was still a little left-over liquidation to be accomplished in Rock Island preferred; but this, although it produced a severe break in the stock itself, was not attended, by serious unsettlement of the general list. The ability of other stocks, including Rock Island common, to withstand the effect of the break in Rock Island preferred went a long way to reassure sentiment and promote the growth of a bullish feeling. The opening was at a level of prices substantially above Tuesday’s close, and the bears failed in an effort to give the list a renewed downward direction. Prices advanced with some vigor around noon, notwithstanding the adverse effect of a sharp rise in cotton, but on the rally Realizing sales were met and these checked the advance. There was a little irregularity at the end, but the tone was strong. The transactions totaled 044,000 shares, with United States Steel contributing considerably more than one-fourth, and this stock, Rending and Union Pacific were much more than one-half of the day's volume of dealings. At the end of the session gains were shown in all stocks, except Rock Island preferred and one or two specialties, the advances generally running from two to three points, or more.
Active and higher.
The opening was moderately .active and higher, the unexpectedly good statement of the United States Steel Corporation having apparently brought in a considerable volume of good buying. Rears argued that the improvement would not last, and did not exert thomselves to cover their shorts. United States Steel opened with 5,800 shares at prices running from 68% down to 63%, as compared with a closing price of 62% on Tuesday. The earnings of $40,170,000 for the quarter surpassed the traders' anticipations by 52,000,000 or $3,000,000.
There was a recurrence of weakness in Rock Island preferred, which, after opening at an advance of two points, soon fell back to almost its lowest price nf Tuesday. Missouri Pacific, on the other hand, stnrted with a gain of three points which it soon increased by a good sized'fraction.
In Union Pacific the first snle was 200 shares nt 155%, and this was followed by 2.500 shares nt 155. The close on Tuesday was 153'4. There has been considerable accumulation of this stock in the last few days, and the next dividend will, undoubtedly, be nt the full 10r»- rate.
It looked as if, on a moderate advance, there was selling of Amalgamated Copper stock, bought by way of rendering support in the last few days.
Bn-uk in R. I. Pfd.
The mnrket was raided soon after the opening, but showed good resistance to pressure, and good buying could be seen in many places. It looked ns if the list had been pretty thoroughly liquidated. That the technical position was much stronger than it was a few days ago. seemed to admit of no doubt.
Rending started unchanged hut with an undeilone of marked strength and showed an advancing tendency even when the genera! list become somewhat reactionary.
In Union Pacific the bears forced a recession of 1% points, but. the stock afterwards rallied with some vigor. The road’s territory has so fur escaped serious crop damage.
A new low record for the year was made by Rack Island, the weakness of this stock reviving rumors nf friction between eerlss" large interests it: the company. These stories were lint credited.
The Wabash issues were no‘. particularly affected by the weakness in Rock Island preferred, the decline in the latter s’oek being ar-’i'rentl'.’ the ro’Ul* nf srsittered liquidation and a lti.-k of support by large interests. Even a*, tho present level, U""k Isl-nd preferred is the highest priced non-divHnnd stock in the active list.
A strong tone.
In the first hour the market showed a good deal of inherent strength, the list opposing sturdy resistance to the effects of r. break in Thick Island preferred such as ordinarily might exert a very <b •■turbing influence. Stocks are probably in stronger hands than at any other time for many weeks past.
Possibly one render, why the market was little disturbed by the break ir. Rock 1 d?.:i’i preferred i-' font the public has little of the rtwk. A nm.i r?,v of this issue, which elects :• majority of tlie bourc directors, ir locked up by a few powerful enpitalisis, and possibly these may ultimately luclt up nearly nil of the issue outstanding.
The'Rn.’k l-'.ard fours, which are secured by deposit of the- stock of tiir R. I. & T’- Railway Co. were' r.ot nffe't"d by the break ir. the preferred 'stock of the holding company, and even the common stock showed a considerable degree uf firmness. In Philadelphia. Lehigh Valley was off somewhat, but not to any great extent.
Rumors were current that a large syndicate had been helped over, but there wns probably a great deal of exaggeration in these stories.
A wide-spread rumor.
In the early part of the second hour, the market was dull and a shade under the best prices. Traders argued that the dullness was a bad symptom; but while bears predicted a break they lacked the courage to attack stocks.
The rise in cotton prices was in considerable measure responsible for the check to the stork mnrket; nnd although the grain markets wore slightly lower, there was still considerable iinxicty regarding the condition of corn.
After Jts severe break from the opening price of 62 to 54, Rock Island preferred rallied to 58, and then steadied itself a little under the last named figure. It was curious to observe the change in sentiment regarding the value of the old C., R. I. & P. Railway property which, it was generally asserted a few days ago, was a tremendous earner, but is now alleged to be unable' to do more than earn its dividends under ordinary circumstances.
Everybody seemed to have the rumor about the alleged troubles of a iiig syndicate; but whut everybody says—that is, when “everybody” means only traders and speculators— is not always true.
Nirenjdli in the Jinrriinnli issues.
The market was strong during tlie second hour with periods in which there were marked displays of bullish activity. Even in quarters where the sentiment had been bearish for a long time there wns an inclination to anticipate a further rally; and thus raised the question whether the short, interest has not been greatly reduced. Possibly it has; hut large interests have required a great amount of stock and will probably exert themselves to make a market for them.
The Harriman stocks were the strongest features of the list on the ex]>ectation of the declaration of the usual dividends next month and the publication of highly favorable preliminary statements of the fiscal year's results.
Dealings in United States Steel were very large, And brokers said their customers seemed more inclined to buy this stock than any other. This preference for Steel may have been partly the result of the fact that customers of commission houses have less money now than they nud some time ago, and are, in a sense, forecd, when buy'ng, to take a low priced stock, because in that their mouey will go furthest.
London wns a heavy buyer of stocks, taking between 50,060 nnd 60,000 shares on balance. The purchases were well distributed over the active list.
Recovery in Missouri Piiclfic.
In the early afternoon the mnrket was firm at or near its best prices, and showed ability to take realizing sales in considerable volume. Some of the traders who had “got left" on the rally, were inclined to buy at the prevailing level, believing that the advance would go further.
There was some realizing in the Harriman stocks on the publication of the good June statements, but sales appeared to be well taken and the belie: prevailed that at the time of declaration of the dividends the year’s results would be published in some detail, and would make a very favorable showing.
Missouri Pacific rallied well, and it was asserted that certain lines liquidated on Monday had passed into strong hands. Traders watched for indications that the large interests were realizing on the stock which they so acquired, but found no evidence of any such operations.
i Rock Island preferred wn flrm in the neighborhood of
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.