FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: CLOSED STRONG AND ACTIVE; After making ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jun 8, 1910;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	_
FEATURES OF THE MARKET.
CLOSED STRONG AND ACTIVE.
After making sensationally large advances at opening, market sold off, turned comparatively dull, and towards end rallied vigorously. Sales 1,054,526 shares.
The announcement that a settlement of the railroad rate difficulty had been effected at the White House conference on Monday evening was reflected, at the opening of the stock market in sensationally large advances in leading stocks, the gains surpassing anything seen in years in the way of overnight improvement. In a number of the active stocks initial gains of 3 points were shown, and in not a few the advances amounted to as much as 4 ■points and over. Naturally on such a rise a large volume of selling was met. Some of the selling, no doubt, came from the bear party, and pressure was exerted upon St. Paul, which after opening at an advance of nearly 5 ■points fell back almost to Monday's closing level on a revival of the rumor that the dividend	be reduced
in the not distant future. Contradiction of this' disturbing report was obtained in official quarters, nnd St Paul, which in the forenoon led the reaction from the high prices, became a leader on the recovery, and the whole market in the last hour developed renewed strength and activity. Closing prices were at or near the best of -the day, and with advances of from 2 to 4 points or more throughout the active list. Transactions exceeded 1,000,000 shares. United States Steel furnished one quarter of the total soles, while in Reading, Union Pacific, St. Paul and Amalgamated Copper also the dealings were very heavy. ^The Street in general did not seem to regarrd the settlement of the railroad rate difficulty as very favor-, able to the roads, but felt relieved that the matter cannot now be productive of immediate consequences of a disturbing kind. The short interest, which had become over-extended, was forced to bestir itself to obtain stocks to cover its. contracts. Some reassuring interviews were given out in the course of the day, contrasting strongly with the hysterical utterances vented in influential quarters last’week, and in general the day's news was of a helpful sort.
Large overnight advances. •
Such over-night gains were shown as arc not often seen even in our emotional market. Advances of 2, 3 and 4 points were quite common in the prominent issues, and the activity was on a very large scale, indicating a demoralized rout of shorts who had things all their own way for a week or more.
The first of the prominent stocks to open was Consolidated Gas, this showing a gain of 4% points over Monday’s close and of considerably greater proportions from the low of that day. The advance was attributed almost entirely to the covering of shorts.
United States Steel preferred sold at 117 on the first sale, and at a higher price on the second transaction. Monday’s closing figure was 114%. The opening on the common included 10,000 shares nt prices running from 78’4 to 78%, as compared with a closing price of 75% on Monday, and a low of 74% for that day.
In St. Paul the advance exactly corresponded to the rise of 4% points in London; in Reading the gain amounted to 4’4 points, and in Southern Pacific and Union Pacific the advances ran from 3% to 3% points and to about 4 points respectively.
Heavy selling on rise.
Stock was met with in great quantity after the opening, and the market under the leadership of St. Paul reacted from its high prices. There wns little inclination on the part of the traders to buy on the advance, and many of'these operators refused to concede that the settlement of the rate matter was a victory for the railroads.
St. Paul, which at the opening sold at 127%, fell to 124% by about 10:15 o’clock, and it was argued that if •the road could not obtain an increase of rates, maintenance of the present dividend would be very difficult.
Southern Pacific showed more firmness than other leading stocks, being helped by the report of placing of $25,000,000 bonds in Berlin. Union Pacific was not relatively ns strong as Southern Pacific, and even when it fell below 170, the traders showed little inclination to buy.
The bear party being rich nnd powerful was still inclined to show fight, and although there was some covering, stock came easily after the lapse of the first few minutes.
reaction around 12:45 o’clock on very small transactions, and an almost immediate recovery on the purchase of 'a comparatively few hundred shares.	‘
The announcement that there was no intention of reducing the St. Paul dividend seemed to have a more or less reassuring effect, but the Street did not like the comment made by the large interests in this property regarding the outcome of a conference on the rate matter. It was commented upon as a rather strange fact that those interests were very bullish, on the prospect of sales of bonds abroad-a few weeks ago, when St. Paul was 20 points higher than it is now, but have no encouragement to offer to the bulls to-day.
Traders showed little inclination to operate on one side cr the other, their idea being that the short interest may be too large for safety in operations on the bear side, and the possibility of a renewal of liquidation; too great for safety on the bull side. .	''	■
Indications of the nervousness of the Street, in regard to possible developments nt Washington, was furnished by the fact that a certain amount of apprehension was aroused by the announcement that President Taft had sent a special congress message to Congress, urging it to carry out the agreement made by him with the western roads, although this was a formality made, necessary by the fact that the new rate measure is not yet a law. Resumption of Advance.	.
In the late afternoon the market showed more strength and animation than in the two or three hours preceding, nnd commission houses reported some inclination on the part of their customers to buy stocks for a further rise. The holdings of the houses are comparatively small at present, and brokers are by no means averse to taking orders on the bull side provided buyers put up liberal margins.
One of the large traders, active on the bear side during the break, said that while he did not consider the railroads had gained anything in the settlement of the rate matter, the market has in the immunity which it will hereafter enjoy from alarmist interviews by railroad officials.* "These gentlemen,’’ he said, "were liable to do great harm by their megaphonic predictions of business demoralization.”
In Reading, the transactions were large and the stock acted about ns well as anything on the list. Union Pacific, too, sho.wed good rallying, power, but as these stocks approached their opening level, renewed selling was met with.
Trading quiets down.
After half an hour of wild trading, in which the transactions amounted to 300,000 shares, the murket quieted down considerably, and a little before elever, o’clock, appearing to get its second wind, hardened nnd recovered part of its reaction. The buying, however, appeared to come largely from the short interest.
Commission houses have few stocks, and perhaps it is for this reason that they showed no enthusiasm for the bull side. They said the market wns still uncertain, but that a good test would be afforded if it maintained its strength during the day.
In many places it was argued thut the railroads by their proposition to increase rates had disturbed business without gaining anything. The conference nt the White House left them where they were before their higher schedules were filed, but may not have the result of reassuring business interests.	.
Amalgamated Copper showed substantial firmness and the annual report, which on Monday received little attention. wns the subject of some favorable comment. It is much more complete than any statement ever presented to the company’s stockholders before, although in some circles the fact that information was not given regarding the financing of the properties acquired frojn Senator Clark was criticised.
A good sign.
In the early part of the second hour the market was irregular, holding its rally fairly well, <this rally, however, not having brought prices back to the opening level.
In some quarters very considerable importance was attached to the fact that our market had made a full response at the opening to the advance already scored in Ixmdon. This was the first occasion on which it had done so'in about a week, and it was argued therefrom that the upward movement both here and abroad resulted from a real demand for stocks and not from manipulation. .
Bears continued to exert pressure on St. Paul, but the stock was not weak although considerably under its best price. The net advance from Monday’s close was still large.	.	.
Satisfaction was expressed over the news that President McCrea of the Pennsylvania was to see President Taft in connection with the rate hiattcr, as Mr. McCrea is generally recognized as one of the coolest and most conservative railroad men in America. Since AttorneyGeneral Wickersham moved for an injunction against the western lines Mr. McCrea has preserved r. strict silence upon the subject of rates and the Government's attitude.	'	,
Taft’s first success.
In the second hour the market maintained its rally fairly well, although in nearly all quarters there was a disposition to regard the settlement of the railroad matter as much more of a victory for the Administration than for the railroad interests. Commission houses were sellers of stocks but there was a continued demand from the short interest.
It was contended in some quarters that the settlement of the railroad matter represented the first real success secured by President Taft since he took office, as the result is practically to give effect to some features of the railroad bill-before this measure has become a law.	...
Filibustering tactics were said to have been resorted to to hold back the railroad measure in order that the roads might put their increased rates into effect before the bill became a law, but that alleged purpose is now blocked.
The borrowing demand was large, but although the market was said to be greatly oversold, prices around 12 o’clock showed a renewed tendency to decline. This decline was accompanied by a rumor that the Interstate Commerce Commission would soon hand down a decision reducing certain rotes in eastern territory. What rates this referred to noobdy seemed to know. ’
London traded both ways in our market and sold a little stock on balance. A large number of buying orders were sent over before our opening but few of them could be executed as the price limits wore too low.	_
A reassuring announcement.
In the early afternoon the market was quiet, with an uncertain tone, the only interesting incident being a sharp
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.