FEATURES OF THE MARKET.: ACTIVE AND STRONG. Prices advanced with
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jun 13, 1913;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
rismjr movement hardly slackened until business
4 or more points
in nearly all the active issues.
wa<< actnc and strong.
steel may, therefore, be stimulated.
Strength of V.
coine t
passed through a period of seveic liquidation.
indicating that
recently
gation plan to b:
presented to the court in tne cou
It was expected thn
believed that the high rate®: for time funds would not be
much longer maintained.
was entirely different from what it had been before.
Administration
and to change it:
of any of the active issues, having apparently become Union Pacific and Southern Pacific responded vigorously to the unexpected presentation of a supple-
p.ayed a remarkable degree of strength, considering the unfavorable report	’	*	*	*
circulated regarding condi-
The Meekly statement of the
England was not a strrng one. the institution ..	_r 1__________i	,_____ .	» .
buying <m the part of these bullishly inclined wbo for days had waited for evidence of a turn before buying stocks.
~ The Harriman issues were prominent on the bull aide, and they made excellent leaders. The submission, of • supplemental plan to the court, providing for of a large amount of the Southern Pacific stock held hy Union Pacific for the Baltimore & Ohio stock held by Pennsylvania, came in the nature of a surprise, and it was immediately recognized that sis a partial solution of a difficult problem it was an admirable arrangement. The market became all the stronger when Mr. McRevnolds announced that he was not opposed to it.
In United States Steel the dealings were very large, end the stock showed remarkable strength. An issue of emergency currency might obviate the danger of a contraction of business, and entirely change the tendenev in the steel trade, which in recent weeks has been reactionary.
Resiliency of C. I*. R.
In the late afternoon the market's pace slackened a little, as was natural after a number of stocks had scored advances of 4 or 5 point?. There was, however, no change ci form; for while there were many realizing sales, the stocks were absoroed readiy, and it looked as if after a short halt the rise might be resumed.
In many places it was experted that a reaction might occur before the week-end, as there were indication* that the local newspapers would belittle the importance ot Secretary McAdoo’s statement regarding emergence currency. The law, of course, has been inforce for several years, but has never been availed of by the banks. Perhaps a strong suggestion was needed; and the Wall Street banks never gave that to the out of town institutions. Now the suggestion has come from the Secretary of the Treasu^*. and it may be immediately acted upon.
Canadian Pacific advanced very vigorously and at The	2:30 p. m. sold up to 2187*, compared with 210**
at "Vt edr.esdav’s close. The stock seemed to tx nv«-rso’d .	... „..............The local tractions advanced on small transactions and
.	regarding Mr. Wilson’s Cabinet, cvcn Atchison joined the bull procession. Content was
even to the extent of commendin the silence of Mr. Bryan a heavy seller of Southern Railway, selling at least 10,r«00 shares, but the stock was absorbed at or a little nnd*»r 20.
Tn the last feu minutes the market	very active,
and the highest prices of the day were made at that time, notwithstanding heavy realizing sales The close was a little undei the hc<t.
early part of the second hour, notwithstanding that stock were already up from a point to 24 point* above the low.
feeling in regard to the
s.rength of union Pacific exceeded that of of the other active issues and was particular Iv nnteworthv
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.