THE STOCK MARKET: A SHARP DECLINE A more serious view was taken of ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Aug 23, 1915;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
A SHARP DECLINE
A more serious view was taken of the Arabic incident and stocks declined sharply on larj*e sales.
Sales 540,705 shares
As there is no Icmger any ground for belief that the circumstances in the case justified the destruction of the Arabic. Wall Street took a more gloomy view of the outcome of the sinking of the vessel than it has taken at «ny time since the first news "*as received. The vesse hart not been warned, and it was not under convoy. No requirement of international law was complied with, the warnings of the United States Government were disregarded. and the torpedo’s work appeared to be a practical answer to President Wilson’s last note. Under these circumstances the Street thought there would oe a rupture of diplomatic relations, although it was not believed that the United States would do any fighting either in a naval or a military way. The cause of the selling was the expectation that after diplomatic relations were severed there would be very heavy offerings of government loans, both home and foreign, in New York, necessitating liquidation of securities as a measure of preparation by intending subscribers. ■’’That the United States would soon begin to put itself in a condition of preparedness for eventualities was expected, and that would involve raising of new money by the Government; and, also, all legal and other objections to the flotation of foreign government loans in the United States would be removed.
At the opening the market was fairly steady, and in a few of the specialties a semblance of strength prevailed. Fxperienced traders, however, .showed an inclination to avoid bull commitments, and before the end of the first hour a heavy selling movement set in which carried prices down to lower levels than had been touched at any earlier period of the week. In tho standard stocks there was evidence of supporting orders on a scale down, but some of the specialties wont ofT rather easily. Part of the selling	for bear account, and thus the useful fac-
tor of a short interest, which tho market lacked previously, was xo home extent supplied. A decline in exchange on London coincided with the belief that a British government loan would not be brought out immediately. Borrowing by the United States Government may precede it. The weekly bank statement published after the close^ of business showed an increase of $10,210,000 in the surplus reserve. notwithstanding a $31,861.000 expansion of the loan
account.	*
Generally Unvor
There was a good volume of activity at the opening and prices generally showed declines compared with Friday’s close, although there were some exceptions. There was evidence of support at the lower level and considering that the rank and file of traders thought it good policy to defer purchases for the present, the market gave a good account of itself.	,
Crucible Steel opened 1% off at 71 Vs and United States Steel started with sales from 72% to 73, compared with 73% at the close on Frxdaj, hut its price soon recovered tn about 73%. Allis-Chalmers opened off at 37l-. The stocks of companies manufacturing acid used m explosives were strong, however. American Coal Products getting up to 153 compared with a high or lo4 on Friday, while Tennessee Corner gained a fraction over night. There were rumors that American Linseed was also engaged in that kind of business and the stock made a new high record for the year. Milling at 171*, an advance of %.
Rock Island was active and opened % up in response to the statement published by Dow. Jones & Co. on I’Sriday that Goldman. Sach<- & Co. and allied banking interests might undertake the reorganization of the property.
Pressure 011 Railroads
Actiritv continued on a good scale to the end of the first half hour, but a great part of it was in specialties of which holdings of the traders were small. This was the case in American Linseed. for instance, in which nothing like the present volume of activity has,been seen for many years, and in which commission hou«e holdings are neg-lcgible.
There wa- some .-elhr.g of the railroads, and also of I'. S. Steo’. on the indication- thnt the British loan in New York would be delayed, and that, therefore, there might be a renewal of foreign liquidation as the only means of overcoming a declining tendency in the exchange market.
It wai quite generally conceded that a successful reorganization of the Rock Islam! would produce a good effect on the whole railroad list and tend to encourage public participation in the market after the present international uncertainties disappear.
Tli<M»rj for Decline
An active selling movement set in towards the end of the first hour and sharp declines occurred all through the list. A number of stop order- were caught as speculators had in many case" endeavored by placing stops to piotect themselves against serious loss.
Some of the Lest observers on the floor said there was selling by large interests, but the rank and file talked of heavy accumulation of Steel by J. P. Morgan & Co. If the house bought the stock it obtained a supply at lower prices than it was credited with having paid for 25.000 shares on Friday, and support which is rendered only on a scala down does not turn the market upward.
The most reasonable theory for the decline was that large interests expected rupture of diplomatic relations with Germany and believed the event would be followed bv flotation of heavy government loans both by the United States and European countries. Such financing might necessitate liquidation of other securities as a measure of preparation.
In some of the comparatively inactive industrials there was little support. Car & Foundry, for instance, declined 1 points on comparatively light transactions, while N. Y. Air Brake lost a substantial part of its recent gam.
Technically; Weak
There was a little rally at about 11 o’clock, but if did not go far; after a few minutes tho soiling was resumed, and prices went lower than before. There may have been some short selling, but tho great bulk of sales seemed to bo of the nature of liquidation, and as prices went down stop orders were caught and weak holdings were shaken out.
It is probable that before nows of tho Arabic incident was received the market hud already become technically weak. That it was in such a condition was stated bj> many experienced brokers at the time, although, of course, had it not been for Germany’s submarine exploit, the reaction might have been further delayed, besides being less severe.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.