THE STOCK MARKET: AN IMPROVED TENDENCY
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); May 17, 1915;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
s AN IMPROVED TENDENCY
Xhtpectartfon of si favorable reply from ®er*,,any resulted in a substantial rally, -part of which was lost at the end.
Sales 241,285 sliares
Although large interests took pains to impress upon Wall Street the unwisdom of assuming that the German reply to the American note would be of such a conciliatory kind as to dispose of the difficulties in tne relations between the two countries, the market took on a distinctly better tone, and scored a substantial rally in the course of the two-hour- session. It was evident that at the low prices the floating supply of many stocks had been thoroughly cleaned up, and that a short interest of large extent had been created. It was in industrial specialties which had suffered particularly heavy declines earlier m the week, that the recoveries were largest; but the standard issues gave a good account of themselves, and there was evidence of accumulative buying on all recessions, although purchases of that kind* showed a tendency to diminish on rapid advances. A great deal of attention was paid to United States Steel, in which the evidence of accumulation was unusually clear; and the strength of the stock was sufficient to impress the Street with the probability of a substantial revival in the important fine of industry in which the company is engaged. There was notably good buying of Union Pacific and Atchison on the bright crop prospects; and, in general, the railroad issues received more attention than on the last advance. A reduction of the short interest might leave the market temporarily susceptible to bear operations, but the belief was expressed in prominent banking quarters that the most unfavorable possibilities in the international situation had been discounted.
The weekly trade icviews indicated substantial improvement in business, and there were indications that the 1 eports of insect damage to winter wheat earlier in the week had exaggerated the injury to the crop. The decision by the Interstate Commerce Commission that railroads owning steamship lines on the Great Lakes must dispose of those properties had little effect on the market, for while not expected just at this time, the Street had long recognized the probabilitv of such action ultimately. Now that railroad earnings show definite signs of improve-went, there is expectation of a revival of demand for equipment; and. as pointed out by Vice-President Bope of the Carnegie Co., the heavier type of freight cars being adopted by the roads will necessitate heavier rails, and large expenditures for improvements in other ways. An attempt to realize profits at the end, combined with a certain amount of bear pressure. produced a little recession at the clo«c, but the undertone continued good, and substantial net gains were made on the day. The weekly bank statement showed a very strong condition of the local institutions, the surplus reserve being increased bv $10.-$47,000.	’
Over-Nijrht Gains
The expectation that Germany would make a conciliatory reply to the American note was reflected by gains at the opening, running from good-sized fractions to a pcint or two in the leading issues. The buying came in great part front large interests, but room traders were also active on that side, apparently ior the purpose of covering shorts. Commission house business was small.
American Locomotive opened 1 points up at 40'£. Pressed Steel Car gained 2 points bv opening at flfl, and Bethlehem Steel, after an initial gam of 2 points, immediately added another point to its advance by selling at 230. Maxwell Motor gained a point over night.
In Union Pacific the fir«t sale was at 122%, up 1% from Friday’s close. United States Steel opened up at 31, and soon increased its advance by an additional fraction. Reading’s gain wa«» the opening price being 141 Vi.
The copper issues were not relatively as stronff as other parts of the list. Utah opened off, but soon recovered its loss; and in Amalgamated the initial advance ^amounted to onlv •%. American Can was a notably strong 'feature, opening IL up at 313*.
All KiK-ourajxiiijc Fact
On the sharp advance in the first few minutes stocks
were supplied in such a quantity to check a rise which threatened the extinction of the short interest, and such a weakening of the technical position as might leave tne market vulnerable to’attack in the event of developments an unfavorable nature. _ In conservative quarters it was argued that it was too early to count with certainty upon a satisfactory ending of the German difficulty, and thdt speculative operations on the bull side should not be encouraged.	-
An optimistic interview on the future of the steel trade obtained in Pittsburgh by a representative of The | Wall Street Journal from Vice-President Bope of the Car* «egie company attracted favorable attention, the more so ’ as Colonel Bope, who is one of the best trade authorities, * has never been influenced in his views by stock market considerations.	.
The' fact that Friday’s decline did not carry prices of the representative stocks back to the low levels of Monday was considered encouraging, and the belief was expressed that on the first day of the week the worst that could be expected as a result of the German difficulty had been discounted.
_ Among the largest recoveries were 3% points to 158% in Canadian Pacific. 4 points to 44 in Baldwin Locomotive, 3% to 88 in Westinghouse, and 2% to 61% in Studebaker.
Strength of Specialties
It was everywhere conceded that the market acted ■well during the first hour, but the traders tried to minimize the importance of the recovery by arguing that the German reply could hardly be received for several days, and that advantage was being taken of the intervening period to drive the shorts to cover. Large interests, however, said that this was the very thing which bulls were anxious to avoid.
There was some buying of the Interborough-Metropolitan issues on reports that the management was already m possession of proxies representing more than two-thirds of the stock, and that the success of the plan was, therefore, assured. .
Strength was relatively greater in specialties than elsewhere in the list, because in some of those stocks the short interest was out of proportion to the volume of the floating supply. The equipment issues were helped by expectation of a revival of demand for cars and engines, in ■view of the bright crop outlook and the improving condition.* in busine^; while in the case of Baldwin Locomotive it was said the Street had not yet learned the full truth regarding the very important war orders received by the > company.
Aeetiiuulntion of Steel
Prices eased off a little at about 11 :30. but the trading became dull on the recession, and when activity was resumed *the advancing tendency again manifested itself. Some of tho commission house.- reported a considerable amount of buying for cash, stocks being taken out of the 1 Street for a long pul’.
, The heavy buying of United States Steel by S. N. W arren & Co. was consider significant, as the house has often been employed to execute orders for large financial interests. The strength of the stock produced^ strengthening influence on the general list. The buying of Erie also seemed notably good.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.