THE STOCK MARKET: TERRIFIC DECLINES Premier Kerensky's fall and ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Nov 9, 1917;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
TERRIFIC DECLINES
Premier Kerensky's foil and Soviet pence overtures with Germany anise precipitous slum]*—Technical conditions remain sound mid Washington developments are favorable— Moragn buying in Steel—Rally at dose.
Stiles, 1,300.(100 shares,
All conditions seemed to favor another upward awing I In the market when the atoek market opened for a new day of business. Secretary McAdoo's statement that there I would not be another bond Issue in January nerved as the stimulating force. Added to this wero the intimations | from Washington that the railroads would get a big rata increase and that no radical changes would be made in the tax program. Things were running smoothly and stocks wero very buoyant when, out of the clouds, dropped one of the biggest bombs that had struck Wall Street in its Irregular course since July. 1914. This was the announcement that the Kerensky Government in Russia had been overthrown and that the Soviet bad begun negotiations for peace with Germany.	x
Prices moved off 2 points following the announcement Then they steadied and the impression was created that even this fnr reaching political disturbance bad'been discounted. Following the little rally prices began to fall right and left There was no disorder at any time, but the decline was watched with concern by commission houses and banks. One stock dropped nearly 10 points in an hour on a tremendous turnover.
Fortunately there was some support in the market in the form <rf scale investment buying. A report which resolved credence in the Street was that the Morgan group were buyers of Steel common. Things should adjust themselves in a little while to the new order of things and the
purchasers of stocks at tho low levels hnvo reason for knowing thut they have obtained stocks very cheaply. Forced liquidation has run its course, tho short interest Is considerable, and the attitude of Washington has changed for tho advantage ot tho stock market following. These factors should go a long way to offset the keen disappointment over tho Russian situation. If it should develop that concerns with Russian war orders will lose their contracts this turn would give these concerns ample opportunity to sell their wares at home.
flood News Causes Higbee Prices at Opening
Outstanding feature of tho overnight developments was the announcement by tho Treasury Department that then would be no bond Issue in January. This Is In line with predictions made by Dow, Jones & Co.'a few days ago. It can bo stated that tho leading bankers of New York look for a change in Government financing soon through the substitution of short term treasury notes for long term bonds. Such a change would bo a bull card in Wall Sereet.
The market showed the effect of the good news at tho opening with practically all issuer hlghor. Steel common sold off in the early sales but moved up for a net gain of % at 9614. The largest activity was in Marine preferred which gained 244 to 10144 in the first fifteen minutes of trading. Insiders still insist that Marino preferred will be worth between 126 and 136 on the baslr of the adjustment plan which is being worked out by a special committee of the International Mercantile Marine Co.
Strength in Shipping Shares
The general list continued buoyant all through the first half hour. Marine preferred sold up to 10214 for a gain of 844 pointe and Atlantic Gulf gained 144 to 07. Coincident with the present boom in shipping shares there is also a boom In shipping shares on the London Exchange, The reason is obvious abroad because Great Britain permits her shipping companies to make Big earnings and pay large dividends. The Peninsular t Oriental Line has just paid another dividend of 18%, equalling last year’s disbursement.
Important Distribution Expected on Atlantic, Gulf
In connection with the strength of Atlantic Gulf rumors arc again current that an impertant distribution will be made before Christmas. D'Tectors of the Atlantic Gulf are among the largest shareholders and this argues well for the value of the stock. It is said that insiders place a value of $300 a share on their holdings. It is not general knowledge that the Mexican Navigation Co., a subsidiary of Atlantic Gulf, is a big dividend payer. It is understood that dividends on the 2,400 shares of this subsidiary are more than sufficient to pay the fixed charges of the holding company.
Misunderstanding Between General Motors Co. and the Government
General Motors was firm but did not share in the general strength. A story is going around that the depression in General Minors stock is due to a misunderstanding between the Government and the General Motors Co. It is said that the misunderstanding arose out of a request by the Government to utilize space for war orders.
Rails eased off in the early trading, Reading showing a loss of a point Pressure was still noticeable in New llaven and Pennsylvania.	■
First Intimation^ of Russian Troubles
Market sold off toward the end of the first hour on rumors of disquieting news from Russia. The morning dispatches intimated that Premier Kerensky’s power was waning, and that the ultra-radicals were assuming more control of government affairs. To what extent this control has been used has not been revealed.
Effect of Tammany Victory Reflected in Municipal " Companies -
. While the whole list sagged slightly there was special weakness in only a few issues. Municipal companies suffered badly. Consolidated Gas lost 344 to a new low at £0. Brooklyn Rapid Transit told off 644 to 42, and Interborough Consolidated preferred last 24i to 4344. This group undoubtedly reflected the effect of the Tammany victory in New York City. Judge Hylan, the Mayor-elect; was represented all through the campaign as hostile to the quari-publie corporations operating in tile city.
Overthrow of Kerensky Government
All the constructive news of the day was offset in the second hour by the shocking news of the overthrow of the Kerensky government and the succession of the ultra-radical Socialist party in Russia. This party has sought peace for more than a year. The fact that dispatches came through the British censor leaves little doubt of the authenticity of the nows. The recent withdrawal of German troops from the Riga district lends support to the belief that the German Government knew some time ago of the imiH*nding political developments in Petrograd.
Elimination of Russia should not make a great deal of difference in the planr of the Allies. British statesmen pointed out months ago that Russia was no longer counted upon as a factor in aggressive warfare against Germany.
Disastrous Consequences ,
Tlie market took the news badly nod big declines resulted all along the line. The stocks which had enjoyed the beet advances fell off most quickly. Marine preferred suffered a loss of about 4 lmmts from the high. Steel sold off 3 and Bethlehem 11 4. Central Leather, Reading and Union Pacific'were also heavy losers. Special weakness developed in General Electric which sold to a new low at 12244. off 5*».
” Russian Cris,- unvr Further Declines
The market went all to pieces in the early afternoon trading when it became plain what the overthrow of the Kerensky Government implied. The first intimation of a new Russian crisis was published in this column, followed by exclusive announcement in Dow, Jones & Co. dispatches from London. Wire houses reported heavy selling from the south and west All tho gains of Wednesday ns well as the gains in the early, trading were wiped out in the leading issues. ,P<lines were vicious and while there was suppoft tn the market the selling overwhelmed this supptrt. f	„	,
’	Steel Common at a New Low
Steel common made a new low at 891s, where it showed a loss of 644 from tho high. Bethlehem B lost nearly 7 points, Reading 6, Central utather 6, American Sugar 5, and Union Pacific 3. The worst loss of all was in Marino preferred, which tumbled 914 points In about an hour. ■	_ .	„
Morgan Group Buying Steel
It can bo stated that tho Morgan group wns a buyer of Stool on Monday and Wednesday. Accumulation hogan at Pl. It is contended In good quarters that tho new support in Steel comes from tho same group. It is pointed out that the Russian debacle came as n surpriso to all. There was absolutely no selling against this now contingency in the last few days. It is possible tlint a largo short Interest has developed anew in tho market, anil this may servo us n stimulus luter.
Traders Cover Shorts at Close
Tradors covered their shorts in extensive dealings in tho lust hour. Undor tho ruling of tho Exchange, traders who cover before tho expiration of a business day uro not counted as short sellers. Buying from tho outside was also noted in commission houses. Considerable ndvnncos wore made In Marine preferred, Steel, Crucible, Central iLcnthor, and Reading. Marino preferred, after selling off a total of 11 Hi points from tho high to Olli, recovei al to 9044.
Steel mode a new low for tho year nt 8841, but sold back to 01'4. Industrial Alcohol recovered 4 from Its low of 103.	,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.