THE STOCK MARKET: BIG-UPWARD MOVEMENT Public enters market with a ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Feb 1, 1918;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
The view was also advanced that traders in the bond market were switching, into stocks.
Investment Issues Gained Easily
BIG-UPWARD MOVEMENT
Public enters market with a vim—Shorts severely punished—-Confidence in new bull campaign grows—A third General Motors coup—Rails /buoyant on alleged Reading deal.
Sales. 955,200 shares.
The big stimulus in the present market for stocks is the very general belief that social disorder in Germany and Austria will lead to revolutions in both of these countries. It is worth noting that .the stories put in circulation all over the world regarding these disorders may be a part of Germany’s propaganda. It must be admitted, however, that the public generally does not take this view. President Wilson’s statement to an association of agriculturists in Illinois that the war would see its big test in 1918 accelerated the general belief that peace was on its way. The public was brought into the market on a larger scale than has prevailed on any recent day Bullish sentiment abounded in banks and commission houses. There was a bear contingent in the market but its offerings were absorbed easily.
It can be said that the present upward swing started with a small gsoup of optimists. It required considerable accumulation to convince the big interests which had made money in 1917 on the downward swing, that the strength was more than a “flash in the pan.” Last Monday one of the most influential wire houses came out openly with a statement of belief that a bull market was in the making. It appears now that this statement had a great influence.
Stories of German disorder eclipsed all other developments There were other constructive influences, however, -which accelerated trading. The international shipping situation was benefited by the appointment of a interAllied shipping council. The Interstate Commerce Commission granted an increase in rates between eastern points and Pacific coast cities. A number of industrial companies published reports of earnings which were ac-
cepted favorably. The fact that stocks of steel companies, which are heavy sufferers from inclement weather and railroad congestion, could advance so easily was interpreted as meaning that the prevailing depression in the steel industry would be only short-lived.	. v
Market Opened Strong	[
Market opened buoyantly without any particular leader. Steels, oils, motors, tobaccos and shipping stocks were active in the early trading. A number of new highs on the movement was scored, including those in -Stutz Motors, Tobacco Products. Ohio Cities Gas, Baldwin and Distillers. The rail list 'also showed improvement, Canadian Pacific gaining a point to 144%.
Steel stocks showed more strength than on the day following the dividend announcements of the Steel Corporation and Bethlehem Steel. Steel common was up % at 94.	.	_
German Troubles a Bullish Factor
Professionals and also a public following entered the market on the bullish side because of the persistent reports of social unrest in Germany. A canvass of commission houses indicates that this alleged unrest has furnished the principal stimulus for the market’s actions. The fact that Washington admits that it has information of conditions in Germany which it considers reliable marked the turning point for some large interest who had held aloof because they did not consider the information reliable.
Inter-mountain Rate Decision Helps Rails
The market broadened in the first half hour and important gains were made. Rails were helped by the settlement of the inter-mountain rate case in which a 15% increase in rates was granted. The decision to leave rate making in the hands of the Interstate Commerce Commission was not such welcome news, but there is no fear for the present that rates will be subjected to unfavorable changes.
Those Atlantic, Gulf Negotiations
Announcement of the selection of P. A. S. Franklin, head of the International Mercantile Marine Co., as president of the Allied Shipping Council helped the shipping stocks. Selection of such a council will tend to stabilize ocean rates and prevent ruinous competition after the war ends. Marine preferred, Atlantic Gulf, and United Fruit all sold higher. Negotiations for the sale of some of the ships of the Mexican Navigation Co. by the Atlantic Gulf and West Indies S. S. lines were explained several days ago in a Boston dispatch to The Wall Street Journal. It is not generally known that the Mexican Navigation Co. paid a dividend of 5500 a share into the holding company last year.
Ohio Cities Gas made a new high to 40%. There was important buying in Industrial Alcohol.
Another Reading Yarn
A movement was begun in rail stocks in the second half hour. Canadian Pacific made the largest gain, selling up 2% to 145%. The real leader of the group, however, was Reading, and it was stated that the movement in Reading was predicated on expected developments of importance. Railway legislation now pending before Congress, while it should help the Reading pool management, is not believed to be the basis for the present movement. Rumors persist that the famous Reading “melon” is on the way. This is an old story, almost thread worn, but in this instance there are circumstances which make the story sound very plausible. The story runs as follows: The" Baltimore & Ohio owns 56,000,000 Reading first preferred, 514,250,000 Reading second preferred, and $10,000,000 Reading common. A part of each of these, stocks is pledged under the $8,000,000 six-months’ loan just placed by the Baltimore & Ohio with its bankers. The Baltimore & Ohio, the story continues, will have to sell some of its Reading stock when its new note issue falls due. A Reading melon would expedite the selling of a large block of stock. The fact that Reading common is selling on less than a 6% basis with other good rails on better than a 7% basis stands out prominently in the present market. There has been good buying of Reading common on the belief that a big market will be assui-ed for this stock on the basis of forthcoming developments.
The market was very broad in the early afternoon, and a number of new high records for the year were made. Investment issues responded easily. Steel common showed a het gain of 2% to 95%. General Electric gained 5% to 136. American Telephone gained 2 to 106%, and Consolidated Gas sold up 3 to 91%; This gain was made> in anticipation of the declaration of regular dividends. Traction .stocks, coal stocks, and shipping issues went to highs for the day.
Big Calls on Steel at 100
Some large interests, it was learned, sold calls on Steel last week at par, the call period running for sixty days. Whether ■ these • interests were long of Steel common could not be ascertained. Steel was selling at 91 when the calls were sold.
Strength in Ohio Cities Gas
The advance in Ohio Cities Gas is credited to insiders who are operating from several Ohio cities. It is said that the Ohio Cities Gas Co., through its many subsidiaries, has been able to without many cash assets from the public view. The working capital of the company on July 31, last, was about $16,009,000 compared with less than $4,000,000 six months previous. The asset sheet of the company underwent radical changes when the properties were re-appraised last year. It was on this re-appraisal that the stock dividend was predicated. Assets amounted to over $85,000,000 on July 31, 1917, compared with a showing of $54,000,000 six months previous. The company ownes 97% of the stock of the Pure Oil Co. and the latter company has a number of subsidiaries which are likewise controlled through this stock holding. The company is said to have under way extensive drilling operations for gas and oil.
Fireworks	'
The third coup in General Motors within a week was sprung in the last hour of the session. The stock advanced to 138% for a net gain of 14% points. An earning statement showing results of operations since August 1, 1917, is due today, but the rapid rise in the stock was predicated only in part on this news development. The trapping of a large short interest was the real cause for the demonstration. Insiders -withdrew all offerings and borrowed other stock, it/is understood. Stop loss orders were caught on the way up.	_
There was not a single reaction during the day. Steel showed a net gain of 4% at 97%. This was an unusual demonstration and short covering had much to do with the rise. General Electric made a gain of 7% to 138%, also under influence of short covering. Central Leather, Baldwin, New Haven and American Telephone were other features.
Motors Boom
Motor stocks attracted almost as much attention as the rails. General Motors made a new high for the year at 127% and Studebaker made a new high at 52%. Botn of these stocks are controlled by pools. Goodrich Rubbe: gained 2 to 47. There is no pool in Goodrich, so far as is known but recent good buying seems to have been justified by the’annual report just published. This report showed $14.29 a share earned on the common stock in 1917 against $12 76 in 1919. The fact that provision has been made for the retirement of 9,000 shares of preferred stock makes the common more attractive.
Evidence of Short Interests in Market
The action of two stocks recently has demonstrated that there is a large short interest in the market. One of these is General Motors and the other Canadian Pacific. General Motors was depressed from 120 to 107 by bear traders, and within several weeks sold up 20 points. There has been a wild scramble by shorts to borrow this stock. Canadian Pacific has also carried a large short interest. The test came in the second hour of the day when Canadian jumped up 5 points to 148%. Two sales elevated the stock 1% points. It is said in commission houses that the short interest extends to a great many issues and that it will be a big influence when a large valume of trading gets under way.
Prominent Houses Buying Central Leather
Four prominent stock exchange houses were buyers of Central Leather. At least two of these figured in the big moves in this stock in 1916 and in 1917. It was said that one of the largest leather men in the country was buying through one of the four houses. The annual report of Central Leather is expected in a few weeks. The stock gained 1% to 67%. American Hide & Leather preferred gained 1’/ to 56, a new high for the year. -Thi<> stock suffered badly in the recent months of depression. One block of 5,000 shares was sold at the market without regard for price and this alone depressed the price about 10 points. The stock has recovered about 13 points from the low. Buying is predicated on the efficiency campaign mapped out for the company by Wm. H. Coverdale. It is suggested in one quarter that this may carry with it a re-apprasial of the company’s plants, which are carried on the books at $25,000,000. Without counting any property values, the $13,000,000 preferred stock had net liquid assets on December 81 equivalent to about $75 a share.
Strength in Savage Arms Explained
The quarterly report of Savage Arras, showing $9.14 earned per share for the quarter, explains recent strength in this stock. It is understood that some of the earnings were not shown in the report, and that they were placed to the account of a special depreciation fund.
Public Participation on Increase
Trading was on a larger scale than on any recent day sales to 1 o’clock amounting to 489,000 shares, compared with 299,000 on Wednesday, and 850,000 on Tuesday. Bond trading -vras in smaller volume than usual. Lfeias ‘ pointed out dn -commission houses that the .increase
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.