THE STOCK MARKET: INDUSTRIALS BREAK Recent favorites have sharp ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jun 4, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.	.	.......
THE STOCK MARKET
INDUSTRIALS BREAK .
Recent favorites have sharp decline ranging all the way from 10 to 20 points from the day’s highs—Many unsettling factors— Call money on industrial collateral at one time 11%—Some large offerings of call money at 6% fail to help matters—Such a break long overdue.
'	Sales. 2,219,000 shares.
The market had its first big reaction since the bull campaign started. There were several factors naturally tending toward lower prices, the principal one probably being the warning of the Federal Reserve Board against the danger of excessive speculation. Chairman Manley of ,the National War Labor Board predicted a period of unrest and strikes. The morning newspapers featured the spread of Bolshevist tendencies in this country by recount-I ing the series of bomb outrages that took place during ;the night in several of the principal cities.
During the day, call money, on industrial collateral was advanced as high as 11%. This naturally had a further unsettling influence, which was not remedied to any appreciable extent by a later announcement that the National City Bank had several millions of dollars to loan nt 6%, In fact, the late prices made new lows for the day, and breaks of ten points in some of the more active stocks were not infrequent
That a real reaction was long overdue had been the prevailing opinion in influential circles for the last fortnight. It seemed, however, as if the public, with a practically unlimited supply of money, could do with the market about as it pleased. But when reaction started the public was quick to throw over stocks and at one time near the close'the scene on the floor was even wilder from a selling standpoint than it had been from a buying viewpoint ovo. most of the last thirty days.
Such a reaction as came into the market cannot have but a stabilizing effect. It cleans out stop orders and serves as a warning to those who believed that a perpendicular rise could continue indefinitely. ,	.
The trading for the day was the heaviest of any five-hour session since December 21, 1916. Some idea of the prassure of the selling at the close is furnished by the fact that the ticker tape did not finish recording sales until 3:2816 which establishes a new record for closing on the Exchange. The previous record was May 7, 1915, the date of the sinking of the Lusitania when the tape ran until 3:25.
Overnight Events Unfavorable
At the opening the market was confronted with a number of overnight developments which were susceptible of distinctly bearish interpretation. The widespread bomb outrages, conveying the impression of a spread of Bolshevist tendencies in the United States, were a disturbing factor. while the warning of the Federal Reserve Board against the danger of excessive speculation was calculated to shake the confidence of weak accounts. Chairman Manley of the National War Labor Board predicted a period of unrest.and strikes, which will overshadow all previous disturbances in this country, unless steps are taken to bring about a better understanding between capital and labor.
Early Prices Little Affected
Coupled with the rise of call money to 8% at the close Monday, these developments might have been expected to cause a sharp reaction in the opening transactions but the market demonstrated apparent fundamental strength of its position by moving contrary to expectations. Central Leather and American Woolen opened strong, each registering an overnight gain of one point. General Motors was up 2% points at 222%, a new high record on the current movement. American Ice was up 1%, while Steel showed a gain of one-eighth.
Profit-Taking During First Hour
There were indications of heavy profit taking throughout the list during the first half hour but the recessions were not large. U. S. Steel sold below 109, and after selling as high as 201 Mexican Petroleum went as low as 199. This price was 5 points under the high of Monday.
Brokers Adopt Attitude of Caution
Brokers, or at least a majority of thorn, had adopted an attitude of caution and were not openly favoring the taking on of additional stocks. Whether or not the public will take the advice of commission houses and cash in their large profits that even now exist remains to be seen. Much of the recent buying has come from the Middle West where the automobile manufacturing concerns aie now showing big earnings and it will be har dto convince niany'of these buyers that stocks are not going considerably higher on this move.
Mexican Petroleum
In connection with the advance in Mexican Petroleum to a new high price it is interesting to note that in April the company shipped 529,862 barrels of oil from Mexico. In this connection the company only ranked seventh among the shippers from that country and was 310,000 barrels under the total of the Penn-Mex Fuel Co. with a total of 839,676 barrels. At the same time commission houses that should know say that the short account in Mexican Petroleum over the last month lias been the largest of any similar period in the last year and a half. In fact it has become a favorite procedure for traders long of the motor stocks and other fast moving shares to sell Mexican Petroleum as a hedge, so long had this stock been inactive while the remainder of the list wag moving upward.
Some Specialties Strong
Among the specialties Loose-Wiles common made a new high for the year at 63 and American Ice common	__ _	_
also went into new high ground at 65. American Ice pre- virtual comer existed.
Several of last half hour, day’s high, American Woolen 20 points, Mexican Petroleum 15. U. S. Steel sold under 107 while Pan-American Petroleum which had sold earlier as high as 103% broko 7 points. -Those who had been most anxious to buy stocks during the last month were throwing them overboard without waiting for a price.	.	.
(Stock Exchange Transactions See Page 8),:
I	'	. .	’
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
ferred made a new high at 75. The preferred ia a 6% non-cumulative issue, but pays only 5% regular although an extra dividend of 1% was declared last Fall. The preferred will probably go on a regular 6% basis before the end of the current year.
American Woolen	'
Am. Woolen mode a new high early in day at 115, up 4. In balance sheet as of Dec, 31, 1918, a reserve of $14,500,000 was made for possible depreciation of inventory which, it stated, had been charged against profit and loss the year before on account of the possible ending of the war. Adding this amount in the profit and loss aggregate amounts to $34,224,622, which is the equivalent of $171 a share for the $20,000,000 of common stock. The preferred made a new high for the year at 107, up 1%.
Leather Position a Strong One1
Central Leather was the strongest of the leather stocks and again went into new high ground at 105% which, was over a point above the top price of Monday. The full effect of the export demand for sole leather and upper leather will not be shown until later in the summer after the release of the British embargo. England has been receiving through government purchases at the(rate of less than 17,000,000 pounds a year during the past 20 months, as against 25,000,000 pounds the year before the war.
Canada Resumes Gold Shipments
While there was further evidence of selling of stocks right through the first hour the announcement that Great Britain had resumed shipments of gold to U. S. from Canada was naturally construed as a bullish factor. About $50,000,000 in gold is now on the way here representing the first large shipment for the account of the British Government since early in 1917.	’
The Rubber Stocks
Among the tire stocks Goodrich gave the best account of itself and held at or close to the recent high while U. S. Rubber sold off 5 points from the top price of Monday. That accumulation has been going on in Goodrich common has been mentioned in this column on several occasions during the last few weeks.
Advance-Rumely Issues Move Forward
After weeks of hesitation the Advance-Rumely issues went forward in the last few days to new high records for the year, surpassing the highs made two months ago. The investment position of all securities of companies manufacturing agricultural implements has become more and more acknowledged, though they have not participated in the wild advances made by other groups. Advance-Rumely is a reorganization. The preferred stock is 6% cumulative. Earnings have doubled every year since 1916. Starting with a surplus of $283,478 for 1916, the amount available for dividends was $1,188,929 last year. With the coming of peace and the prosperity of agricultural communities, capacity- production and new record earnings are looked for.
Pool Active in Pan-American Petroleum
Mexican Petroleum in the oil division and General Motors and Goodrich in tire motor and tire classrwere |he features of strength during the second hour. The former sold as high as 205% after a reaction earlier in the day to< 197. Pan-American Petroleum was strong with Mexican and sold as high as 103%, up 6% from the previous close. There is said to be a strong pool operating in Pan-American.
Shorts in Goodrich in Trouble
A short interest created by the financing plans had a hard time covering when Goodrich advanced to 85, up 6% from Monday's close. The financing plans of the Goodrich Co. are nothing more than a refunding proposition to take care of the $15,000,000 of notes maturing this Fall. The new issue of preferred has already been underwritten. When it is considered that Goodrich has been paying $4 annually for the last five years on the common stock while U. S? Rubber suspended disbursements three years ago and probably will not resume payments at a rate of over 6% and that not until late in the year, Goodrich common is not too high around the current level. Its profit and loss surplus has been brought from a little above $3,000,000 to better than $30,000,000 in the last five years.
Call Money at 10%
Advance in call money to 11% resulted in a flood of liquidation which forced several of the active issues down all the way from 3 to 10 points. Mexican Petroleum broke from 205% to 200 and Pan-American from 103% to 100%. Studebaker reacted 4 points and Goodrich was off close to 3 from the day’s high. The reaction in the mils was less than that in the industrials which was natural inasmuch as speculation has centered in the industrial list. Southern Pacific held around 112 as compared with Monday's close of 113%.
Warnings of Over-Speculation
There is no doubt but that the warning of the Federal Reserve Board against the dangeT of excessive speculation had caused some good selling throughout the day. Earlier in the session this selling had been absorbed by orders that had been kept in the market at prices slightly under Monday's close. When the fresh liquidation set in these orders had been taken care of so that support was lacking.
National City Bank Offers Money at 6%
After the early scare it was announced that the National City Bank had several millions of dollars to loan on call at 6%. This had a reassuring effect temporarily and around 1:45 prices stiffened somewhat, but there was evidence of a lack of eagerness to buy on the scale of recent sessions.
Studebaker's Market Position
Early reaction in American Woolen carried it from a high of 130 to 120. On the floor the advance of 19 points in this stock during the day gave rise to reports that a . As in Studebaker, which has also had a phenomenal advance during the last week, several large operators had taken a short position. In fact the advance in Studebaker, at least, from 100 to 124%, according to the best information, has been largely due to a squeezing of this short account. There is no present intention of increasing the Studebaker dividend above a 4% annual rate. .
Bad Break at Close
the leading issues broke wide open in the Studebaker was off 18% points from the ;