THE STOCK MARKET: A SHARP RALLY Easier money stops liquidation for ... Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Jun 18, 1919;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
A SHARP RALLY	Monej- Opens Easier
--------—	Announcement around 11:15 that money was easier,
Easier money stops liquidation for present at least—Rallies of better than 5 points in leading issues—JU. S. Rubber makes ne»v record high—Motor shares have strong comeback—United Cigar Stores near recent high price—No great demand for call funds and rate gets down to 5 %.
Sales, 1.433.700 shares.
With call money as low as 5% the Street had a breathing spell with some rather sharp recoveries in prices. There was a demand for call funds which amounted to something like $10,000,000 at the opening which was easily met at a rate never exceeding 10%. From this level it got down to 5% around the close. ■
Opinion on the immediate future of the market is decidedly mixed, and it is not difficult to find houses that believe the shake-out has not yet run its course. But the selling had been so violent during the three previous sessions that it needed but very little encouraging news to cause a sharp upturn. The action of the market over the next two weeks should go a long way toward determining the probable trend, through July at least.
The decline of the last ten days has caused many of the industrial favorites to lose close to one-third of their advance that started tho beginning of the year and culminated around June 5.
Germany has received the revised peace treaty and has until June 23 to decide on an answer. The uncertainty of the situation here seems certain to be a market factor until the beginning of next week unless ail immediate answer is made to the Allied terms.
An Irregular Opening
The opening was irregular, with tlie biggest overnight advance in Mexican Petroleum, probably a result of a temporary cleaning up, at least, of the Mexican bandit trouble. The stock opened at 177, up 2%. U. S. Steel was up % at 103%.	Tl:<: tobaccos still showed firmness,
and while the opening in American Sumatra was at 110%. up %, the stock quickly ran up a full point to 111%. Central Leather was off a point at 95.
Some Early Recoveries
The market acted better after the first half hour with gains of belter than 3 points in some issues compared with the opening levels. United Cigar Stores after selling as low as 14S rallied to 151. The advance from 149’a to 151 was made on 100 shares of stock. Royal Dutch, N. Y., sold as low as 103%. and then on a fairly large turnover got back to 10614.
Royal Dutch
A rather peculiar speculative situation was brought about in Royal Dutch through an earlier announcement that nothing would be done relative to the issuance of new-stock until a meeting scheduled for June 30. This caused considerable throwing over of speculative long stock, the holders of which then took a short position on the belief that there might be an indefinite delay in making known the financial plans. But when this delay did not materialize and the company announced the new plans for the distribution of the new shares at par on the basi- of one !share of new stock for each four now held good buying set in and those who had taken the short position found themselves temporarily at least awkwaidly placed. They were helped, however, by the general sma.-h in prices on Monday (but the buying of Royal Dutch below 105 was of the very j best and it bounded back easily yesterday.
Prices of Shoes Still Advance
This same sort of good buying made itself felt in Central Leather and the stock after selling as low as 93 advanced to 97%. The break in this stock had carried it off 15 points m ten days, and with the company’s known strong earnings and asset position scale buying of an i excellent character was to be expected. The prices of : shoes continue to be increased with a further radical ad-1 vanee expected in the fall.
Early Disinclination to Follow Prices Up
While the tone of the market was distinctly better, and tlie average of prices around eleven o'clock was considerably above the previous right’s close, there was a 'marked disinclination to follow prices up. In other woids, tlie rally was there, but after the now level had been established the market was inclined to become dull.
Some Varying Opinions
One large commission house which had taken a bearish position before the big break in prices occurred, was still inclined to believe that the woi,t is nut yet over, and was advising customers to got out of long stocks on all rallies. The members of this firm do not lay the present decline solely to a result of money conditim.-. . but >ay that the bull move was decidedly overdone, and I that the shake-out must ire just as drastic.
Recent Losses
On the other hand, a majority of houses seemed in. dined to believe that on any further reactions stocks could ;be bought at least for a turn. Taking the peak of the upward swing most industrial stocks have lost an average jOf close to one-third of their gain. .The reaction in Gen-[eral Motors ns compared with 1he high of the last three i weeks amounts to 40 points, Studebaker 32 points, Central i Leather 15, Mexican Petroleum 32, Pan-American 13, , Royal Dutch 15. The motors and oils were features on the upswing; just so, naturally, do they' become the most .prominent in recording big losses. The holdings of these [two classes of stock in brokerage houses were probably | the largest of any’ classes of industrials when the break occurred.	■
1	Allis-Chalmers
Whilo Allis-Chalmers had held up comparatively well during tho earlier days of the set-back it got down to 38 yesterday. This company’s financial position has been vastly improved since the reorganization. The net working capital has been increased from $12,200,000 to $19,640,000 as of January 1 la6t. Among its assets the company’ has $1,686,350 in Liberty bonds and $2,000,000 of U. S. Treasury certificates. Its unfilled orders are understood to approximate $25,000,000.	’	.	. -
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
with renewals at 9%, failed to have an immediately stimulating effect on prices. In fact, most of the high levels reached up to noon were' attained previous to the opening of the money market.
Some of the earlier advances included American Woolen at 110, up 7 points from the day’s low; "otudebaker 97%, up 5%, and Royal Dutch N. Y. 107%, up 3%.
American ’Woolen
The situation in American Woolen is an interesting one and the large blocks of stock accumulated under 85 are said to be intact. The large wholesale clothiers find tho demand for goods so great that they are making no effort to take care of any but their regular customers. Salesmen who usually are now out on the road digging up new business have in the majority of cases been ordered back to their offices. Ready’ made suits tliat were selling four years ago at $22 each are now retailing at $60.
U. S. Rubber Mystifies
It is difficult to secure a real explanation for tho strength in United States Rubber all during .the break. The stock reached a new record high yesterday at 125%. Of course the current rumors are that tlie strength is due to the imminence of a large dividend, but a talk with officials fails to substantiate any such reports. One house with excellent U. S. Rubber connection* reports tliat there lias never been any better buying of U. S. Rubber than has been seen during the last ten days. As pointed out here bcfoie if new interests arc seeking control, possibly the du Fonts, it would be necessary’ to obtain either the Brady or Colt holdings ns well as .a large block of stock in the open market. There is always the possibility that the du Pont-Durant interests might consider U. S. Rubber on excellent addition to their General Motors group because of its big automobile tire capacity. On the other hand the tire business of U. S. Rubber dees not represent ever 35% of its total business.
No Great Demand for Money
Up to neon only $10,000,000 in call money was wanted and this was easily’ supplied at an average around 9%. At the previous session demands were for better than $20,000,000. Altogether the money’ situation looks better.
Market Acts Well in Early Afternoon
The market acted well during the early afternoun an.l selling pressure appeared to have been lifted for the present at least. The advances took in all sections of the lis", the most pronounced of course being in the issues that had been the hardest hit. Central Leather recovered nearly 5 points, ‘
Most of the celling that did occur represented stocks bought by pools during the last few days for supporting purposes. Lifting of the selling pressure gaic these pools an opportunity to lighten up and placed them in an improved position to support their favorites in the event of • another selling wave. ■	“
Tire Business of Country Reaches Big Proportions
The strength in U. S. Rubber helped tho entire tiro list and Goodrich got up to 80, up 7, and Kelly-Springfield was up 2% at 120%. The three largest manufacturers of tires in the country arc U. S. Rubber, Goodyear Tire & Rubber and the B. F. Goodrich Co. They will divide, in the current year something like $550,000,000 of 1 urincs-s although of course this will not all be tire busi-nc==. But tire sales alone among these three companies may run up to $300,000,000. Tire business of the country which will be divided up among more than 100 coni-ppnie.-, should run in excess of $600,000,900 in 1919.
Crucible Steel	.
Despite failjrc to declare a dividend on the common stock. CrJCible Steel sold as high ns 99%, up 3%. The Street is completely mystified by the failure of directors to take action, as it was understood that everything had been arranged. The best opinion is that the initial late will not be over 5% annually, with the chances favoring 4'4.
A Strong Close
New highs for the day were made during the last half hour with American Steel Foundries and U. S. Rubber the features. The former sold at 42 nnd the latter made a new record high at 125%. The motors all acted better and ^nited Cigar Stores got within two points of its lccord’high. .
(For Range of Friers See Page 7)
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.