THE STOCK MARKET: INDUSTRIALS REACTIONARY
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Feb 25, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4	.	.
THE STOCK MARKET
INDUSTRIALS REACTIONARY
Oils, steels and motor shares liave sharp reactions—'low-priced rails continue to hold up well—General Motors off 17 points from the best price made on the recovery at the close of last week—Foreign exchange markets agrain decline.
Sales, 1,097,900 shares.
The industrial shares particularly the steels oils and motors, were subjected to heavy pressure throughout the day. During the last hour U. S. Steel common got within 1 point of the low made in the break early in the month. General Motors sold off 18 points from the high of last Friday, while the reaction in Crucible from the best figure of the last week was about 14 points. Among the oils Mexican Petroleum had a reaction of 12 points from the best figures on the recovery of last ■week, Pan-American 7 points, Texas Co. 10 points and the lower priced oils in proportion.
General Motors has decided to issue temporary certificates for its new common stock; which will be of no par value. Dow, Jones & Co. forecast such a move last week. If the Stock Exchange acts favorably upon the application, it will mean that those who are long of the old shares and short of the “when issued" stock will be able to close up their contracts. Such a proceeding will mean not only the saving of two months’ interest charges, but will serve also to put a quietus on those who have insisted for the last month that the plan for the splitting up of the shares ten for one would fall through.
Railroad stocks held well even in the face of the selling in the industrials. This was natural in view of the passage of the railroad bill by both Senate and House and the probability expressed in despatches from Washington that the President will quickly affix his signature. There was also an excellent investment demand for railroad bonds.	■
Industrials Lower at Opening
The unfavorable showing of the Federal Reserve Bank statement on Saturday and the loss of 51-ic. yesterday in demand sterling resulted in lower prices in most of the industrials at the opening. The passage of the Railroad Bill by the House and Senate held up the railroad issues although the lower priced ones acted better during the early trading than did the dividend paying stocks. United States Steel common was off % at 9854 while American Woolen, in which a large short interest was run in on Saturday, lost 2 points to 130. General Motors was down 5’4 to 245 and Crucible was off 2 at 202.	.
Among the rails St. Louis & San Francisco gained % to 24 54 and Reading was up at 765*. New York Central was up 154 at 7354-
List Sells Off Rather Sharply
The whole list sold off ratheT sharply for the first twenty minutes. The selling was principally by houses through which the professionals have recently been operating on the short side. There was, of course, a considerable amount of liquidation froon out-of-town based on the Federal Reserve Bank statement. But the best informa-
tion was that most of the early selling was for short account. 061 stocks and steels were the hardest hat and ' Mexican Petroleum showed a decline of about 8 points from the high of last week, whole Pan-American Petroleum was off 6 points. -Crucible Steel got under 200.	|
Inside Selling in Crucible Talked	I
There is a whole lot of talk going around the Street that considerable inside selling occurred in Crucible Stoc] during the last week. In fact gossip has it that the con-. trolling interests who have a gentlemen’s agreement not; to sell their stock unless by mutual consent let some of' their holdings go during the rally at the close of last week,; or immediatey following the run-in of shorts when the ; premium of 54 for loaning purposes was put on the stock.' It is pointed out in circles that should know that a some- : what weak outside following has been attracted into Crucible because of the excellent manner in which it stood , up during the last -break in the market. Control of Cru- ; cible rests in the hands of ten or twelve men who are fully aware of the kind of buying that has recently come into ■ their stock.	,
Better January Export Figures Cause Rally	j
i
Export figures for January amounted to $731,000,000, increase of $49,000,000 over December. The Street in
an
general was hardly prepared for these figures as recent talk had been that the January result would be below that of December and the Lear crowd had beer, counting on such a statement. This caused some little covering of stocks and about 25% of the early loss was made up.
Rally Short Lived
After the rally based on the export figures for January professional attacks were renewed and U. S. Steel common was driven below the low of the first half hour. Considerable amount of stock was sold at 97H:. Republic Steel was also under pressure, as were all of the oils.
Brokerage Opinion
Leading commission houses arc again advising caution in the buying of stocks, and the following wire sent out by Clark, Childs & Co. is fairly representative: “The Railroad Bill appears likely to become a law in short order, and once the President affixes his signature to the document one of the big uncertainties which have kept the Nation in hot water ever since the Government took over the roads will have reached its solution. The rail problems of the country are still many, but the passage of the bill is a step in the right direction. The success of the bill has very likely been pretty well discounted from a speculative standpoint: and if it has not. the poor showing made in the New York Federal Reserve Bank and Clearing House Bank -.statements on Saturday will probably be sufficient to call a halt to a further general advance in prices. With the reserve ratio down to 37.1%, against 38.9% for the week previous, in spite of banking efforts to curtail commercial borrowing, there is ground for concern. A higher discount rate and a stiffening of call funds is not unlikely.”
Low Priced Railroad Shares Make New Highs
The lower priced railroad stocks made new highs on the present movement shortly after 12 o’clock. There was nothing'in the way of news from Washington to account for the added interest in these shares and it was probably based on the expectation that President Wilson will sign the bill at once. Bond houses report excellent investment demand for railroad bonds, particularly those of the nondividend paying roads.
Car Shortage Biggest Worriment of Motor Car Makers
General Motors got down to 24014, a decline of about 14 points from the high of last Friday. Reports from the Middle West continue to tell of the great difficulty of securing freight cars to carry away automobiles from the factories. Between 300 and 400 empty cars come into Detroit daily under normal conditions for the shipment of automobiles. But in January only 35% of the norma! supply was roccrived while on several days the total was only 10% of normal. The fact that the month’s average was only about one-third of normal tells the talc of tho present greatest worriment for the automobile manufacturer. This situation has compelled the making of automobile deliveries by driving the cars over the country. It is estimated in some quarters that in January something like 40% of the output of cars and trucks in the Detroit district were delivered by being driven overland.
Industrials make new lows
New lows for the day were made in the last half hour. U. S. Steel common got down to 96, while Mexican Petroleum touched 171’4. At this price it is off over 11 points from the high of Saturday. Among the motor shares General Motors got below 236. The low-priced rails held up comparatively well, but some selling came into the higher priced ones.
(For Range of Prices See l’age C)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.