THE STOCK MARKET: DECLINE CONTINUES
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Feb 26, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
DECLINE CONTINUES
Entire industrial list is still under pressure with the extreme declines in American Woolen, General Motors, Republic and Atlantic Gulf—Tj . S. Steel common sells below the low tip:ure readied in the break early this month—Call money up to 15% in final dealing's. .	.
Sales, 1.251,000 shares.
, Values are now quoted at 50 cents on the dollar, and Washington gives no encouragement that its policy of restricted credit and deflation is to be changed. That is the keynote to the whole situation. Values do net count. It is the fetish of the fixity of 35% and 40% gold reserves that must be worshipped, while values crash and industry and production are threatened.
The whole industrial list was under pressure throughout the day. The hammering process finally got U. S. Steel common a full point under the low price reached in the break early in the month. Many other industrials went below the early lows—in other words, established new lows for the current year. But it was in Republic that the principal pressure appeared and this stock was hammered down nearly ten points from the close of Tuesday. The selling was based on the annua] report which showed only $1.43 earned for the junior issue in 1919. The Street entirely lost sight of the fact that Republic was probably the hardest hit of any of the steel companies by the strike, but that now it has swung back into biff production and big earnings. Traders forgot all about the excellent statements of U. S. Steel and Bethlehem.
Higher call money rates assisted in the downfall of many of the recent industrial favorites. Money renewed at 7% as compared with 6% on Tuesday and in the late dealings loaned as high as 15%. ' Foreign exchanges were also somewhat easier.
Republic's Decline Features Opening
Republic Steel was heavily pressed for sale at the opening as a result of the publication of the earning statement for 1919 which showed but §1.43 a share on the junior issue after preferred dividends and taxes. A block of 3,000 shares was taken at 92, off 5% from the previous close. On subsequent sales the stock quickly rallied to 9414. U. S. Steel common opened from 95?i to 95% as compared with a close of 96. At 95% the stock was within % of the low touched in the break at the start of the current month. Crucible Steel was ofT 2% at 194.
The low-priced rails were ofT fractionally from the previous close. In the motor group General Motors was unchanged at 235%. but Chandler, which had held up comparatively well during the reaction of Tuesday, was off 3’j points at 121%.	■
General Motors Makes New Current Low
General Motors made a new low on the present reaction at 231% around 10:30. This was a decline of 22% points from the high of last Friday and is within G% points of the low of the month. Other motor stocks sold off an sympathy. Motors really went against the market inasmuch as at the time of the making of the new low V. S. Steel common was rallying from 95’4 to 95%. American Woolen held around 120 to 121.
New Short Interest in Crucible Indicated
Crucible Steel got down to 192 or within a point of tlie low of last week. The stock was loaning flat Tuesday night which would indicate that a new short interest is being built up in it.
A. I. C.
Decline in American International stock, which sold at 120in January, has more than offset the corporation's paper loss on the securities it holds. As a matter of fact American International still has a substantial profit on the major portion of its investments, which include U. S. Rubber, International Mercantile Marine. United Fruit, Simms Petroleum and other stocks. Its Rubber holdings were acquired some time ago. and the average cost to American International probably was well under $70 a share, against which it has already received dividends in cash and stock. Its Marine holdings, by far its largest investment, around 100,000 shares, cost it an average, it is believed, of less than $S0 a share, and it has also received big cash dividends on this stock. American International's United Fruit holdings were also acquired at low levels and big dividends have been paid on them.
In :=ome quarters there has been an apparent inclination to attribute big losses to American International as a result of the decline in Simms Petroleum, but the amount of that stock tlie corporation has in its treasury is not nearly :>s large as generally believed and this w;is acquired before the big advance in Simms that preceded the decline. Its loss on the investment, can hardly be important. Incidentally. A. I. C.'s holdings of Rubber stock are grossly , exaggerated in the public mind. The lowest figure men-i t.ioned in this connection is 50,000 shares, and this is a great deal more than the actual amount owned. American International's 'balance sheet as of the close of last year, to be issued soon, is expected to show a book value of moro than $110 a share. Figuring paper profits even at current market levels it is likely the liquidating value is nearer $120 a .-hare. The stock was fully paid in.
Local Reserve Bank Directors Meet
from the opening, while recovery in Mexican Petroleum was over 2 points. Sinclair held around 38. Sinclair Consolidated Oil is virtually the only big producer in the Daimon Mound field, Texas, where it has brought in a 5,000-bairrel well. The corporation owns something like 8.000 acres in this district. Until this well was brought in the immediate locality was regarded as wildcat territory. Development operations will be carried on as rapidly as material and. equipment can be assembled. Oil men predict that Damon Mound will eventually become one of the biggest and richest fields in the state.
Main Pressure Against Steels and Motors
Republic Steel was driven to a new low at 90 It around 12:30. U. S. Steel Common after a fair sized rally from the decline of the morning again got below 95. Lackawanna Steel sold under 70. In fact the main pressure seemed to be directed against the steels and motor stocks. General Motors sold down to 230%. At the time the stock on the big board was selling at this price the “when issued” stock on the Curb sold at 23%. This is a difference in price of less than 5 points between the old and the new stock which is the nearest they have come together since the trading started in the new shares. This proximity in the price is due to the announcement that the company plans to issue immediately’ temporary certificates so that all contracts can be closed up probably within tlie next two weeks.
Bethlehem Annual Report Out Soon
The annual report of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation will be out soon. It will be in favorable contrast with many’ of the independent companies. The preliminary’ report recently issued showed $21 a share earned on the stock. Earnings since the first of the year have been running in excess of 1919. The balance sheet of Bethlehem will show a drastic reduction in bonded debt, as during the year the company- retired $21,500,000 bonds before maturity. In addition to regular dividends last year, Bethlehem added nearly $7,000,000 to surplus account. For its common stock Bethlehem earned twice as much as U. S. Steel last year.
American Woolen Gives Way
American Woolen, which had held up well during the earlier trading, while other industrials were declining. finally gave way under continued pressure- A block of 1,400 shares was taken at 120. after which the stock sold down to 117%. The low on the first break this month was 120. and the following week it sold at 119%; so yesterday’s low figure marks a new low price for thi3 year.
Call Money Advances to 15%
Call money advanced to 15% late in tlie afternoon, which caused a resumption of bear activity which had been suspended for about an hour.
New Lows in Final Dealings
New lows for the day were established during the last 15 minutes. U. S. Steel common got under 94 and Republic at its low figure was off 9% points from the final sale of Tuesday. American Woolen got down to 115. The stock broke from 117% to 115 between sales. Chandler wns also under pressure and was off G points from the previous close. A block of 2,000 shares was taken at 120 and then it got down to US. Studebaker got close to SO.
( For Ransre of Prices See I’agre.,7)
The local Reserve Bank directors were in session during the day. The Street was full of conflicting reports as to what action would be taken on rediscount rates. Of course it was net at all certain that the development* of the meeting would be made known during the day. On set era! occasions news has been given out in the next day's morning newspapers. The bears argued that tlie uncertainty as to the action cf the board was conducive to unsettlcment in prices. It certainly did r.ot invite public participation in the market. However, announcement was made after the close that the discount rate on U. S. Certificates of Indebtedness had 'been raised from 4%% to 5%. but that other rates of discount prescribed on January 22 would remain in full force and effect. There was a reaction in sterling exchange which again carried it below 3.40.
Call money renewed at 7% as compared with 6% at Tuesday's opening. Money advanced to 7% at tho close on Tuesday and some loans were made after the close at 8%. About $1,500,000 was taken at the latter figure.
, Sinclair Only Big Producer-in Damon Mound
Oil stocks showed a firmer tone os the market went into the second hour. Pan-American rallied about 8 points
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.