THE STOCK MARKET: INDUSTRIALS CRUMBLE
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Feb 11, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 4
Entire'industrial list Jias’sharp reaction frith bear drives aihied at the motors, oils and steel issues—Call money rate gets down to 6% but it fails to halt the attaek on prices——General Motors seems to be entirely without support—U.S. Steel common sells below the low figure of last week.
"	Sales, 1.051,900 shares.
It was an active day for the uptown crowd of bear traders who succeeded in causing a further recession in prices. (They hammered the motor stocks throughout the day and, at its low price General Motors was off 73 points from the high of the last two -weeks. At 24654 the stocks shows a reaction of 160 points from its record figure made last October. Other motor stocks wcre^naturally affected by this break, although Chandler acted comparatively well holding around 130.	’
mere was a further easing in call rtoney rates, new money being obtainable as low as 6% in the last hour. This caused only a temporary rally and stocks then continued on their way downward. The bears had the bit in their teeth and refused to be halted. Likewise they paid no attention to the Washington advices which made it appear more and more as if the peace treaty has excellent chances of being passed although in a somewhat amended form.
The trend of th'c foreign exchange markets was somewhat irregular although sterling held at a level most of the day close to or.above the last of Monday.
Lower at Opening	•
. Declines were general at the opening. U. S. Steel common was off % at 9954 while Republic declined 154 to 106; Among the equipments Baldwin, which was in demand for both long and short account on Monday, lost 154 points 111%. Goodrich was still under pressure and at 69% was off %.	'
The bears showed no inclination to let up in tlicir hammering of the motor stocks and at 264 General Mo-
’ tors was off 1% points.
77%.	■
International Paper lost % to
"Market Opinion
There was still a marked disinclination on the part of leading commission houses to invite the purchase of stocks excepting on extreme dips. At the same time the feeling seemed to be general that any good news at all would result in a sharp advance in prices. In this connection A. A. Housman & Co. say:	'
- "Although the improvement in prices was due mostly to short covering, there was a big demand for stocks in the loan crowd Monday afternoon, indicating a continued short interest of substantial proportions. Time money remains high and scarce, and developments in this direction do not indicate any sustained advance in stock prices. The market is likely to remain rather quiet, and if call money continues as it was Monday there will perhaps be a greater disposition to consider outside influences, such as, for instance, the threatened ‘show down’ with railroad labor. The decision of the shopmen to strike on February 17 if wage demands are not satisfied, may be part of a plan of organized rail labor to force the issue for higher wages before March 1 and further to complicate and embarrass the return of the roads. The action of the market as a whole indicates that buyers are still skeptical and timid?’
,	10% Renewals Cause Covering
Call money renewals were made at 10%, which is the lowest figure since January 29. The bear crowd had been confident th^t the renewal rate -could not possibly be under 12%. Therefore the announcement of a 10% rate caused some covering of stocks by traders who had been selling the motors and oils during the first hour. The stocks that recovered the easiest were the oil shares, and Middle States got above 30, as compared with a previous close at 28%, and a low during the first hour yesterday at 2G54. The morning newspapers gave a whole lot of publicity to the financial troubles of one of the controlling interests in an oil concern, supposedly Middle States. The publicity given this statement suggested perhaps that this individual’s troubles had been magnified far beyond the real facts, for the purpose of building up a bear trap. Middle States "was easily the feature of the oil list.
Constructive Factors Overlooked
It took more than a lower call money rate and reassuring advices from Washington on the peace treaty to keep the bears long in check. After a fair sized rally the whole industrial list again went off and in some cases new lows for the day were made shortly after 12 o’clock. The situation is summed up as follows .by one close market observer:
“The bear crowd has had things pretty much its own way since the middle of last November. It .is true that there have been rallies in the market but not of great enough magnitude to cause any real uneasiness in the bear ranks. In fact these rallies have only been large enough to invite further short selling so that the short interest that got into the market at the top of the October rise has been- pyramiding its winnings all the way down. It will take something more than 5-point rallies to cause any general covering movement, as the bears have made too much money on the short side of the market to become easily dislodged. Just as long continued advances make the bulls confident that the market has no top, the bear crowd at the moment is just as sure that the decline has still a long way to go. The more money they make the more secure becomes their position and 1 think it will take an advance of 10 points or more in the leading stocks to cause any real uneasiness among those who have been persistent short sellers of stocks for the last three months."
Money Loans at 8%
New loans were made at 8% around 1:30. but it helped security prices little. In fact, shortly before that time the whole list had been raided with the extreme declines in General Motors, Mexican Petroleum and the steel stocks, with the exception of Crucible. From the action of the last named stock it is full of shorts just now and any attempts to depress it under 209 are difficult of accomplishment. People who had bought stocks on Saturday and Monday were discouraged by the way the market acted in the face of news which as a general thing was more favorable. They therefore threw stocks overboard, taking a small loss and awaiting for further signs of stability before doing anything marketwise.
New Lows During Last Half Hour
New lows were made during the last half hour when General Motors got down to 24654. Mexican Petroleum at 162% was off 11% from Monday’s close while U. S. Steed common made a new low on the present decline at 96%. American International Corporation sold at 90. Support seemed to be withdrawn from all parts of the list.	.
(For Range of Prices See Page IO)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.