THE STOCK MARKET: BAD BREAK NEAR CLOSE Stocks are thrown overboard in ...
Wall Street Journal (1889-1922); Apr 22, 1920;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 4
THE STOCK MARKET
BAD BREAK NEAR CLOSE
Stocks arc thrown overboard in final hour anti reactions for the day run all the way from three points to nearly forty points __Hammering' tactics of bear clique finally successful in causing liquidation of speculative lines—Call money 7% all day.
Sales, 2,000,300 shares.
Mexican Petroleum 35
There was no indication of any letting up in the selling pressure during the course of yesterday s market. Even stocks that had held up comparatively well in the breaks of Monday and Tuesday finally gave way. In this group were the sugar stocks, and 'Pur.ta Alegre sold off over 12 points.
The news of the day was little .different from that of the two previous days. In fact it was probably a little better, including as it did the calling off of the outlaw railroad strike in the East and the publication of the export figures for March which showed the second largest monthly total in the history of the country. But the bear clique flushed with the success of the two previous days kept up their hammering tactics and naturally managed to effect a fair amount of liquidation. Baldwin at its low figure of the day was off 3	.
high of the last month. General Motors 135 points, PanAmerican Petroleum 20 points, Mexican Petroleum 35 points, Vanadium '24 points and other stocks in proportion.	'
Call money was ~r/c all day.
Trading Tan over 2,000,000 shares and the flood of selling" orders carried the turnover for the last hour close to 750,000 shares. The final tansactions was not recorded on the tape until 3:23. This final break carried U. S. Steel common down to 98%, a loss for lhe day of nearly 3 points.
Little Change at Opening
The opening level of prices showed little change from Tuesday’s last. While U. S. Steel common was up % at 101%, Republic Steel lost an equal amount at 105. Lackawanna Steel, which was one of the few strong spots yesterday afternoon, advanced 1 % points to S2. On subsequent sales the stock jumped 'to 83%.	"
Crucible was" off a point at 240, which represented a new low on the present decline. In the oil group, Mexican Petroleum was up 1% points at 185%, but Sinclair was off % at 37. Studebaker was unchanged at 113.
Better Tone to Market Early in Day
The bear crowd was still gunning for weak spots, but the market in general gave a good account of itself during the early trading. There was a lot of pressure against Transcontinental Oil and Sinclair, which drove both of these issues down to new. lows. Transcontinental at 17% was off about 6 points from the figure at which it-was selling when the five months’ earnings statement was given out o.n Monday. These earnings were equal to only 9 cents a share for the stock or an annual rate of 22 cents r. share. The selling that has come into Sinclair is largely of a professional character and based on the financing plans calling for the raising of §50,(JOO,<100.
Lackawanna Steel Continues Its Lead
. . 1 ' . ■ ■ ■ -this time Republic Steel got above 107, Lackawanna above 85, Replogle Steel above 69, Vanadium at 85 and U.;S, Steel sold at 102%. Replogle and Lackawanna were still the leaders of their group, the former gaining over 6 points from the low of the morning. In connection with, the advance in Replogle the Street heal’d the story that Vanadium and Replogle will merge on a share for share' basis. On the face of it this would appear to be bullish on Replogle but bearish an Vanadium.
Another Noon Raid
' The market was subjected to another raid around noon which carried Baldwin, General Motors and Punta Alegre Sugar to new lows on the decline. It was natural that the sugar stocks should be a target for attack inasmuch as they had held up comparatively well in the breaks of Monday and Tuesday. Those controlling General Motors marketwise seem to be content to let it run its own course’ and by so doing they are undoubtedly building up an extensive new short account. As far as Baldwin is con-' cerned it has always been a favorite selling medium by traders when the market is raided.
Shell Trading & Transport
Shell Trading acted well even when the rest of the list was selling off and kept a position above 85. In fact Shell has acted well all during this week’s break in the market-_	The strength is in response to the stock increase plan
34 points from the < which means valuable rights to shareholders.
General Motors Hit Hardest in Bad Break
The whole list broke badly around 1:30 and U. S. Steel common got down to 100%. The biggest break, however, was in General Motors and this carried the stock down to 290, off 27% points from the previous close and 120 points from the record high made about a month ago. The break in General Motors carried Studebaker down to 110 and Pierce-Arrow to around'65.
Remarkable Export Figures Overlooked
In all the pessimistic talk in brokerage houses, no attention, apparently, has been paid to the remarkable export figures for March, which marked the second largest total on record.
ranks second June, 1919.
§646,000,000, §603,000,000.
The value was $820,000,000, which for any month to a total of .$928,000,000, in February exports of the current year were and in March a year ago they totaled
Bad Break Near Close
Stocks were thrown overboard without regard for price during the last half hour and U. S. Steel common got below 99, General Motors Down to 275, Replogle Steel down to 60, and Vanadium down to 73. In several instances breaks of 7 points occurred between sales. About the only stock that stood up was Shell Trading which held above 84.	.
(for Kange of Trices See Page G)
Lackawanna Steel continued to lead the market, and made a new high on the present move at 84%, up 4% from the previous close. The rumor will not down that , Lackawanna will ultimately go into a merger with other steel concern.', and the buying 'yesterday was said to come from sources close to the management. The move is certainly not based on earnings. Lackawanna earned only §1.02 a share on the common during the'year 1919, after charges and Federal taxes, which left a deficit, after dividends, of §1,749,152; and the company, the first quarter of this year, showed another deficit, after charges and Federal taxes, of §449.720, as against a net profit the same period of 1919, of §1,207,109.
Renewal Rate Down to 7%
The call money renewal rate was 7% as compared with 8% on Tuesday and 9% on Monday. Furthermore there was no great demand for funds even at the 7% figure. Against this constructive factor was a further reaction in Liberty bonds which carried all of the issues to new lows. There is every indication that many other large corporations besides General Motors are selling large blocks of their Liberty bonds.
Stock Exchange Denies Baldwin Story
Stock Exchange authorities deny that there is any basis for the story published in one of the morning newspapers to the effect that those handling Baldwin marketwise have been warned that their tactics do not meet with Stock Exchange approval. Much of the selling of Baldwin on Tuesday is said to have been on the basis of such reports. After an early low of 129%, Baldwin rallied over 2 points.
Stocks Rally
The whole list firmed up around 11:30 and around
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.