STOCKS IMPROVE; VOLUME SMALLER: SUPPORT IN LEADING ISSUES LATE ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 1, 1926;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
STOCKS IMPROVE; _ VOLUME SMALLER
Support in leading- Issues Late Tuesday Follows Through and Brings About Large Price Gains	I
!
OLD-LINE STOCKS IX THE LEAD'
Support buying: in late trading: Tuesday on the Stock Exchange followed through yesterday’s close in convincing- fashion. Gains on one to ten or more points were numerous. The opening saw stocks materially higher and as tho day progressed prices improved. A short recess in the improvement occurred after the noon hour when the equipments were attacked. These stocks gave ground but when they were bumping bottom the rest of the list advanced sharply. The equipments followed in the van and the end of the session saw competitive bidding for stocks.
The shorts were experiencing their Gethsemane and it was net at all to their liking from the manner in which many stocks, recently favorites in short selling, advanced. The end of the session found prices at or near the best levels for the day. A sample of the advance may be had from the fact that General Electric, Sears, Roebuck, Wool- j worth, Atlantic Coast Line. Central Railroad of N. J.. I advanced 10 points or more. In American Can, General Motors, New Haven, Pan American, Allied Chemical and others the advance was relatively as large. In other words, the rally was all-inclusive troughout the list. Even the equipments gained considerably from the day s lows.
Support buying was accompanied by short covering and along with these was a considerable reduction in volume of trading, indicating much of the urgency of selling had been eliminated. The day's volume of 2,600.400 shares contrasted sharply with 3,356,200 shares on Tuesday.
THE EQ.ITIT*MEXT BREAK
An effort to dislodge sto^jc occurred after the noon hour when sizable amount^ of the various equipments stocks were sold ut the market and this group of issues had a bad break. The rest of the market maintained a rather calm demeanor in the face of this selling, a decided contrast with recent trading sessions when a selling wave in any particular group brought liquidation *hT'orlTGr issnos. -- ;
*It seemed the market was gaining strength from- the fact that an increasing number of tissues were being supported so that declines in this one group did not bring out stock in others.
Steel common. General Motors, General Electric, Standard Oils, American Can, Southern Railway, among others, continued to be the bulwark of the market’s improvement This followed the improved tone in most of the above issues in the late trading Tuesday, when the rest of the market was breaking badly.
SEVriMENT mi’ROVED
One or two developments were not passed without notice. Of prime importance was the decided stand taken by a number of the leading houses 'in advising clients that they believed the reaction overdone. Hornblower & Weeks was one of these with advice to buy stocks for a rally, adding they believe the decline overdone.
Dominick & Dominick, another large house, stated that they have never seen such good character of buying in odd lots and round lots, for cash, as occurred during Continued on Seventh JPage
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
STOCKS IMPROVE;
VOLUME SMALLER
1	Continued From Fir at I*ape
the decline Tuesday and again on Wednesday. The buying of stocks followe through for the first time in months and they stated they knew of many rich individuals, who have more or less frowned on the market for the past three to six months, who were heavy buyers of good stocks
■	on Wednesday. They attribute this to the fact that , many good stocks got below real values and added that
probably 70% of their business the last two days repre’ sented buying which they consider of the best sort.
Another situation which made for a more ■wholesome ! atmosphere was the intelligence that banking accom-
■	modations of some of those identified with the recently attempted Nickel Plate merger had been arranged for another year. The amount of such accommodations was , not disclosed but it had a beneficial effect on several stocks, notably Chesapeake & Ohio which earlier in the day had been subject to considerable selling.
ArillL PAYMENTS A FACTOR
From a financial standpoint, it was noted that considerable of the recent calling of Joans was occasioned by payments made or to be made tomorrow and which undoubtedly caused numerous calling of funds which had been loaned on call. Such a procedure as calling *n these funds, of course, caused some selling of stocks to i , reduce lines.	|
Included in such financial arrangements is the pay- 1 ment of $70,000,000 by Canadian government on its 4% notes, retirement of more than $15,000,000 notes by Vacuum Oil Co. (both tomorrow) and the payment of around $100,000,000 to Associated Oil stockholders Tuesday. Much of the funds for these payments had been out on call preparatory to distributions. Only about $8,000,000 was called this morning, indicating the lessening of the strain.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.