Broad Street Gossip: The Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 27, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
Broad Street Gossip
The market
The market has been acting as experienced traders expected it to act. There was a very sharp recovery from the low prices reached In the smash, and now irregularity is beginning to develop. This irregularity is due to various causes, among them proflit-taking by traders who bought lower down and short selling by professionals who believe in lower prices after a sharp rally. There is still good investment buying, but it is not as pronounced as it was for a week or so after the last big break. Traders bullishly inclined are willing to take the chance of buying on the recessions as they are confident that severe market troubles are over for a long time to come.
There has been lots of good news, particularly constructive news from Wa«hing»on, and confidence Is returning, though it may come back slowly. People seem to think that while no big over-night profits can be looked for many stocks will yield good profits if held long enough.	*
There is a still a large short interest in the market, but it is not as aggressive or as confident as it was. One reason is the ability of the market to come back on normal declines. Traders are watching business very closely. The bulls say, that if business makes progress from Its present level, stocks are bound to move in sympathy.
Nothing to Look At
Three months or so ago a trader sailed for Europe. He bought 500 shares of Radio on a 40% margin. '‘The profit on that will pay my expenses abroad.” said he, “I won't even look at It until I come back.”
Last week the trader returned.
‘•Have you looked at your Radio yet?” asked a friend.	"
‘There is nothing to look at,” replied the trader. “They took It away from me on the first sweep downward.”
They believe this is one way toward stabilizing and conserving the oil restrves of the country. »
Bond Buying	t
Jackson Bros., Boesel & Co. have published | a list of three groups of selected short term I bond which now yield more than call money. The list includes nine rails, three utilities rnd seven industrials. This house is of the opinion 1 that while the public at large will continue to favor common stocks, there will be extensive institutional buying of bonds.
The Short Interest
Brokers say there is little change in the * short interest. It is large in the automobile. ‘ copper and steel stocks. Selling has been on ‘ the falling off of production of steel and automobiles and rumors of a reduction in copper > prices. Ko stocks are lending at a premium. < and no active stocks are lending flat	I
Copper	'
Every big copper producer says the price of the metal will be maintained at 18 cents a pound, and that a drop in the price at this time would do more harm than good. ~ say not.
Yellow Journalism Still
After reading the cable to eign correspondents about the “panic” Street, we don't wonder that London
But consumers
With Er
Europe b
Steel
Production of steel has dropped to under 70% of capacity and it may go a little lower. Over the last five years, production on several occasions has taken temporary drops, at one time to around 65% of capacity. The present shrinkage no doubt reflects hesitancy resulting from the stock market slump, although production has been slowly downward since the middle of the year. The decline previous to the stock market break was due to the falling off in demand for automobile steel. Were it not for the larger orders coming from the railroads, the greatest consumers of steel, production would be considerably lower than it’ now.
The steel Industry will come back as it always has to make new peaks in production, but this may not be an event of the near future. The steel industry is more stabilized now than ever before. Prices are off a little, but there has been no big slump such as the industry experienced years ago. Earnings of the steel companies in the current quarter are not expected to show an improvement over the preeding quarter. They will be considerably less, but it is probable that United States Steel, as well as the independent companies, will show dividends earned by safe margins.
Newmont Mining
Meeting of the Ncwmont Mining Co. will be held early in December. Prospects are for a regular quarterly cash dividend of $1 a share and a stock dividend of 5%, the same as in former years. Based on the present price of the stock, the stock dividend and the cash dividend will have a value of $7.50 a share. For the past several months Nnmont has had under consideration a plan which, if adopted, would please shareholders very much. But in view of the decline in the stock it is believed this plan will be held in abeyance.
Sweet Revenge
”1 sec the tape got even with the market today.” remarked a trader.
“I’m glad someone got even with it,” responded a victim of the recent smash.	•
‘‘America will be having a hard time coming ; back.” That yellow journalism xs still with us 1 is evident from cables sent to London by cor- f respondents containing such prevarications as ' “bodies of suicides fill the streets.” "savings 1 banks empty.” “suicide and crime,” “greatest embezzlement in history,” “ruin and tragedy prevail.'’ etc. More remarkable is the way London papers fell for such rot.
Some Thankful
It will be a joyous Thanksgiving for the bears, all except those who sold at the bottom and those that covered and went long on the i first big smash.	j
And it will be a joyous Thanksgiving for the bulls, except those who failed to buy when J stocks were scraping bottom, and bought when they were 50 to 100 more higher than they are now.
High and Low Prices Tuesday two stocks made new new lows for the year 1929 or longer. New highs—Alpha P. Com., Parmelee Trans New lows—Abraham & Straus, Am.
France pfd.. Am. M & F. pfd. w. w.. Am.
S. S. pfd.. Barker Bros, pfd., Buev Erie pfd.. Can Pac. 3rd pd. ct., Chic., R. I. 6r, pfd , Fashion Park. Fed Mining. Gon. Cigar pfd . Howe Sound, Maytag pfd. w. w.. Maytag 1st pfd.. Mullins Mfg. pfd.. Revere Copper & Brass. Shubert Theatre. Spiegel. Un. Stores pfd , IT. S. Hoffman, Wells Fargo. Willys Overland pfd.
Heard on the Street
The four day holiday will give people an opportunity to do a little more sobering up.
Many brokers are now advising tho purchase of stocks on dips, but none say how far they should dip before they are a purchase.
those who points or
22
highs and
La
Rad
should dip before they are
Insofar as money rutes debit balance now has the balance.
are concerned, the laugh on the credit
I Rumor is again current	.	_ _ __
a great while before application is made to . list Electric Bond & Share on the Stock Exchange.
Jackson Bros., Boesel & Co. have published a list of dividend paying common stocks selling between $30 and $100 a share which thev consider favorably.	"
A typical traders market. The bears had the best of it yesterday forcing stocks down a few points on weakness of the copper issues It is what some traders call a hit and run market. If you make first base you are luckv. Th* same n.d rumors about copper price reduction.. were afloat.
that it, will be not
Continental OH
Since the big break in the market Continental Oil has acted well, at one time showing a recovery of nearly 50% of its loss. Tho company earned $1.17 in the third quarter Of the year. A Dow, Jones & Co. analysis shows that it is becoming one of the largest oil concerns m the country’, with a gross production of 115,000 barrels dally.
Cement Prices
Cement stocks advanced substantially on the news that cement prices had been raised 20 to 30 cents a barrel. Jhcidentally, it the government, the corporations, etc., do the amount of construction work suggested in Washington dispatches the cement companies are m for a period of record-breaking activity.
They’ll Hang On
Editor Broad Street Gossip: **It seems to me that one slant of the recent market panic has been overlooked. You hear a good deal about all those who last money in the big decline but there is little mention of those of us who made money during that period. When stocks got to such idiotically low levels a couple of weeks ago or so many of those who had previously stood afar off, as it were, pounced on the market with their comparative small savings and picked up low priced issues purely for investment purposes. I know of several such cases, and I imagine there must be a million of them throughout the country. We arc in for the long pull, come what may. Bear drives, whispers about coming business depression and such bumcombc leave us cold.”
Tho Holiday
Few look for heavy transactions before the four-day holiday. Neither do they look for 5,000,000 share days next week. Many traders are doing nothing pending the long recess. The consensus seems to be that the market is now back to normal and this means quiet trading for awhile. However, there are many old-time traders who believe activity will increase as the year draws to a close, that is if there is no sevete decline in general business. The market is watching business more closely than at any time in more than a year.
OU Mergers
At least three oil mergers are on the carpet . and one or more of them may come through within the next several months. Remarkable is the fact that certain people who were against merging of oil interests when efforts to dissolve tho old Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey were under way are now in favor of them.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.