Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 23, 1929; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 19
Abreast of the Market
.1 Daily Column of Comment
Selling continued in the stock mgrkst again vesterday. with a large number ot stocks establishing new low records. Liquidation was heavy and as lower prices were reached stop-orders were uncovered which added to the supply at a time when only scale bids from shorts and bargain hunters represented the demand. Under the circumstances the lower prices were logical.
<—all money lenewed at TCc and later dropped to 6tc. but this was without influence. mainly because the Street is looking for considerable stringenev next week in connection "wnth the month-end obligations for interest and dividend pavments. Many are inclined to look for a rate above 15^?. the peak on the last flurry in call funds.
Several fruitless attempts were made to rally the market. Uncertainty over the rediscount rate situation and the smaller margins which remain against speculative accounts because of previous reactions discouraged any show of enthusiasm by longs and prevented any possible outside following on the buying side for the time being.
Sentiment is pessimistic. It is contended that as stocks have broken through what were considered the resistance levels they can go still lower before meeting sufficient buying to start a sustained rally. For that reason the conservatives are advising liquidation when opportunities are presented. Stops near existing levels are also urged to protect accounts.
If there are optimists in the Street they arc not willing to express views at the moment (Only technical recoveries are expected, even in . quarters w hich had been bullish up to Lbe beginning of this v. eek. and most interests do not consider these worth trying for Therefore they are keeping out of the market.
Trading
Liquidation through commission houses was heavv and at times had Lhe appearance of being of forced character. Bids were supplied and what little new buying developed was negligible. The leading firms sold on balance.
Professionals and floor traders were taking in shorts activ» iv without influencing stocks as the offerings were persistent. This element purchased on balance
Re-discount Rates
Action of the Federal Advisory Council in recommending that the Fedral Reserve Board permit advances in re-discount rates to 6't by banks desiring to take such action has led Wall Street to the belief that higher rates are to be expected shortly.
I Ite-discount rates have been at a disparity with money right along and the gap would be closed by advances. Naturally such action has disturbed some of the optimism which still existed in financial quartern and has resulted tn an increase m outside liquidation.
I i
Business
Much attention has been attracted by the pessimistic views on business by the Harvard Economic Service. This has been quite an indunce on the market, judging by the discussions heard in all circles. A seasonal let-up in , activities is due in various lines, but up to the ' present there are no indications that this decrease will be even as large as has been considered normal ir. previous jears,
Ralls
Maikct authorities believe the bullish demonstration in the? mils which followed the O’Fallon decision Monday hud been overdone. More Hibcr consideration has resulted in the view that the verdict could not be taken as promulgating a blanket pnnciple establishing definitely reproduction cost basis for tumble earnings.
Liespite this, however it that the decision is decided!} t
J rails, because it establishes once and for all the tact that cur-ent reproduction cost	‘
• the elements ol value recognized b} the law ol | the hind" which must be taken into considera-■ lion in future valuation cases.
he computing recap-
cannot be denied important for the
is one ol
Short Interest Large
That there is a large short interest in the market js the opinion in conservative houses While many firms which have been getting customers out of stocks have strongly advised against adopting a short position, it is admitted that outsiders who sold out some time ago have been putting out moderate lines. Profits have accumulated in many instances giving these shorts more confidence in their new position and leading to additional sales.
outstand-when the tms issue territory.
Columbia Giu<s
Columbia Gas has been one of the mg leatures in recent sessions. Even general market has been reactionary has been able to move into new high
This action has naturally attracted considerable outside buying. Traders are reported to have taken a long position in the stock and put out short lines in others as a hedge. This would i appear to be one ot the instances where such !a spread proved to be profitable on both transactions.
Oils
Price advances in crude oil and the prospects for other upturns indicate the change which has been reported in the oil industry recently. Some or these stocks were purchased a week ago on the expectation ot su h encouraging developments. The action* ot the general market has prevented the oil group trom adequately reflecting the change in underlying conditions.
The increase ot 18,800 gallons in the daily production ot crude oil last week was somewhat disappointing, because some Wall Street interests had been predicting another drop in. the output. However, oil interests did not consider this showing alarming in any way.
Continental Can
The fact that Continental Can did comparatively little during the period when American Can was active and strong recently is attributed to the fact that the rights were still out. These expire today. With possible pressure from rights lifted, the stock is likely to do better if the general market improves. There has been good buying at times on the reactions, based apparently on the favorable outlook.
Goodrich
Goodrich should benefit from the improved raw rubber market and the heavy consumption of the product. Important interests are credited with having quietly accumulated the stock during recessions recently on the theory that eventually the price oi the shares will more accurately reflect improved prospets. coming out during the decline in the market, so far as < an be discovered.
the excellent earnings and None oi this stock has been general
The Motors
It is difficult to get a good word motor group trom speculative quarters Street. These stocks have been working downward steadily for some time, first as a result of the pressure from bear traders, and later
on the in Wai!
■ because ot outside liquidation forced by the im* pairment of margins in accounts. *
The general view on the motors now seems to be that production will be considerably curtailed in coming months and that keen competition tor new business will result in lower prices and a smaller margin ot profit for the various makers. A few steel companies which supply the motor industry have reported that there has been a decided let-up m new orders trom these consumers in the past two weeks.
American Safety Razor
Interests familiar with the affairs of American Safety Razor are discussing the rapid expansion of the company’s sales both at home and abroad. Last year $5.45 a share was earned on the 208.112 no-par shares outstanding, compared with $5.03 in 1927. The company is the second largest manufacturer of safety razors this country and produces Gem. Star and Ever Ready blades, shaving brushes and other accessories. Regular cash dividends of $4 a share are being paid annually, with extras recently of 25 cents a share each quarter.
Granite City Steel
Granite City Steel has held up well during the recent unsettlement m the various markets. Last year was the first of the company's independent existence and net earnings amounted to more than $1,000,000. With the steel industry operating at a high rate this year, even a better showing is generally expected. Granite City Steel has retired its preferred stock, so that with less than 300,000 shares of common outstanding the results a ' logically show some improvement
Eaton Axle
Interests who had become active ket for Eaton Axle about two weeks ago have stepped aside since stocks became reactionary. H* we ver, there has been no evidence that heavy blocks have been thrown on the market. ’‘’he decline in the issue apparently has been due tc the liquidation by some outsiders who followed tho buying during the advance and who have been filling the bids while they have been getting out of the stock.	*
sharc may this year.
in the mar-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.