Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 14, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15	- _	1
Abreast of the Market
A. Daily Column of Comment
New low records were established in marv of the leading stocks again yesterday, although there were signs at tunes of a moderate amount , of resistance as investment buying was encountered for odd Jots, and shorts were attracted into covering at the fax*orable levels established 1 curing the reactions.
Tbe belief is spreading that short selling has been a most important influence in recent sessions. Floor traders are being credited with pressing stocks for sale whenever it is evident the demand is growing limited. Xaturally a supply, coming at such a time, has effect m causing lower prices. These attacks a^e said to be directed mainly at the pivotal stocks which influence outside sentiment by their market action.
As in the past, the reactions brought out a renewal of liquidation from customers of commission houses who were compelled to sell out part of their long holdings because margins bad become further impaired by the lower levels. This supply, however, was reported to have been smaller than during the two preceding sessions of the current week.
Conservative observers believe that a rally is not far off, for technical reasons only. They point out that the short interest has been increased immensely in recent sessions, and if a covering movement could be started it might bru}g a good recovery Such an upturn, however. should he used to reduce long commitments, m the opinion of these interests.
Trading
Several of the large commission houses reported that they were getting a better demand, and while selling continued through various firms, the purchases are believed to have exceeded sales.
Professionals and floor traders bought to cover shorts, but were putting out stocks ac-t.vely during most of the session, and this element was credited with having sold on balance
Short Covering
Short covering was again in evidence yesterday In addition to the selling by the professional bears several commission houses report that customers have been inclined to put out short lines in the past few days. Under normal conditions the public short selling is looked on as rather weak and ia usually followed b> a good recovery.
What buying for the account of shorts tc take in commitments has occurred thus far has been credited to tne professionals. Outsiders have been maintaining their positions Any good rally could start a covering movement of comparatively large proportions.
Liquidation
Forced liquidation was less in evidence yesterday. Various firms stated that many of rhea weak accounts had been cleaned out for he time being by tbe break of Monday and Tues day. With any sign of stability it is probable that many additional accounts could be put into stronger shape by disposing of part of the long holdings at more favorable prices. Such selling might have a tendency to keep a recovery within very reasonable bounds.
Investment Selling
The extent of the investment selling m recent weeks has been tbe subject of comment on all sides. It has been this supply which has caused some anxiety among industrial and banking leaders Investment holders of stocks apparently became disturbed by the continued decline in their securities and in a number of instances strong boxes were opened and the stocks disposed of.
Foreign Trade
Recent statement of E>r. Julius Klein that th** European cartels were gradually strengthen ng the economic structure there and m con-r^qucnce were developing more potential buying power, makes the prospects for American foreign trade ’ook exceptionally good.
Enormous expansion in exports of manufactured goods from the United States has occurred since he war. and likewise, imports of ra’v materials, especially from South America, have increased. ***'lt was pointed out that this ••interlacing” of industries tended to bring about a stable condition, as depressions and expansions in the trade of one country were modified by the relations with others.
American export trade has not gained particularly at the expense of Europe, but foreign markets have been developed as a natural ic-sult of the law of supply and demand, coupled with the efforts of Ameucan producers to popularize their goods, such as automobiles, tobacco machinery. etc., abroad.
Credit
Private advices received from various sec-uons of the country by Wall Street interests state that the impioved credit s’tuation and the increased funds available already have resulted in bringing forward for consideration building projects which had been held up when money was at high jales. This is one situation which might be quite favorable in coming months, even if there is some depression in business elsewhere.
The Too! Industry
Orders in the machine tool industry have been dropping off giadually for the past several months, but seme makers welcome the respite as an oppoitumty to catch up on orders. Deliveries arc still delayed considerably for many concerns.
Such companies as Xilcs-Eement-Fond report enough business on their books to keep running at a good rate well into next yea*-. They add that 1929 has been the best year for their industry since the war period. Although some let-up in buying must be expected to result from the stock market situation, prosperity for the railroad equipment industry and son e other lines promise satisfactory conditions in the coming months.
New York Central
With all other rails New York Central has been affected bv steady liquidation. The selling has come from all quarters, but is looked upon as being due to the fact that holders of other stocks were compelled to sell Central to realize funds for their speculative accounts. Investment stock has come on the market from time to time, but this has not been the experience of Central alone, for it has occurred in every other investment issue.
Railroad Equipments
When the general run of stocks was moving ahead sensationally earlier in the year the railroad equipment issues were practically neglected. As a result the public following in many of these stocks was comparatively small. What selling has developed in these issues naturally has found a thin market and caused declines, but the good outlook for these car and locomotive builders for the coming year is being discussed in many quarters now.
Utilities
Whereas speculative public utilities were
selling as much as 35 times earnings in some cases only two months ago they have come down so sharply that the selling levels compared with earnings are now much more conservative. However, the action of these stocks has discouraged outside participation. Where public interest has been shown in the utilities it has been on the selling side. Most of the supply had all the earmarks of being necessitous in character. When such selling comes into a group, prices, dividends, earnings and all other factors which normally predominate in establishing values, are ignored.
Car Loadings
With sentiment so pessimistic it is only natural that much significance has been attached to the decline in car loadings. For the week ended November 2, the loadings of revenue freight amounted to 1,071,650 cars, a drop of 62,160 from the preceding week, and 32,292 cars from the corresponding week last year. Railroad authorities insist that this reduction is seasonal. They point out that the good position of the railroads must be realized from the figures for the first 44 weeks of the year, showing loadings of 45,628,611 cars, an average of better than 1.000,000 cars weekly, and an increase of 1.596,025 over the corresponding period of last year.
Procter & Gamble
Procter & Gamble Is selling considerably below the price of $66.67 a share paid by J. P. Morgan & Co. for 150,000 shares last August. This banking firm also has an option, expiring February 12, next, to purchase 100,000 shares additional at $80. Company has been making its most rapid strides in its growth during the past few years. Sales for the year ended June 30, last, were $193,000,000, an increase of 12.1% over 1928, and 23.6% over 1927.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.