MARKET ORDERLY IN RECORD DROP: CONTINUED OPERATION OF BANKERS' POO Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 29, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
MARKET ORDERLY IN RECORD DROP
Continued Operation of Bankers' Pool Prevents Repetition of Thursday's Hysteria
INDUSTRIALS OFF 38.33
Another heavy ^ve of liquidation hit the stock market Monday, resulting1 in a general price decline wljich carried most stocks to Jevels below those reached during Thursday's wild session. The severest price decline occurred in the final hour when approximately 3,000,000 shares, about one-third of tbe day's total, changed hands. A. number of representative stocks did not touch the lows of last week but they were in the minority.
Any impression that the group of strong banking interests had relaxed its interest in the stock market situation, however, was dispelled by an informal talk which the spokesman for the group had with newspapermen following another conference of six leading bankers at the offices of J. P. Morgan & Co. late Monday.
The indication was dearly given that not a few quarters, with large resources, were getting ready to enter the market on a sizeable scale. This development, it was learned, is more marked than at any time since the wide decline started in the market some ten days ago. It was indicated that the bankers bad heard from numerous sources that the market had reached a point where investment trusts and others with large available funds were ready to buy stocks on a substantial scale.
Banking Group Actively Interested
Emphasis was again laid by the bankers’ spokesman on the point that the association of banking interests was one designed primarily to stabilize a market situation which had gotten out of hand around midday last Thursday. Then the market was badly demoralized and the intervention of the banking group was for the purpose of bringing about a more orderly market condition. It was stated that the trading on the Stock Exchange Monday, while in large volume, and with drastic price declines, was a far more orderly -affair than that of last Thursday. The “air pocket*.” xn other words absence of bids, did not prevail as in the hectic session last Thursday.
It was further indicated that the price decline yesterday was not wholly unexpected. Stock Exchange routine is such that many traders learned of their position over the weekend, and with the general level of prices sharply lower, a considerable "amount of liquidation to adjust accounts was anticipated. That this de-Contmnrd on A'mrfrmfh Pape
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
MARKET ORDERLY IN RECORD DROP
ConftKurd from Firot Pagt velopment, coming- on a more than 9.000.000-•hare day. was handled xn an orderly manner was regarded as significant.
.To further emphasize the continued interest of the banking group in stock market affairs, it was pointed out that just because no official statement had been made l»Ionday was not to be taken as an indication of any lack of inter-•st of the associated bank mg interests. The purpose of the activity of <ic bankers, it was reiterated, was not necessarily to prevent stocks from declining, but to bring about a stabilized condition in the market so that business could be conducted in an orderly manner.
The aarne banking interests who attended the previous conferences, begun late Thursday, were at Monday's meeting, as well as several members of J. P. Morgan & Co. Those present Included Thomas W. Lamont. of J. P. Morgan & Co.; Alfred H. Wiggin, head of National Sank; "W. C. Potter, of Guaranty Trust Co.; Charles E. Mitchell, r-hsirman of National City Rank; George F. Baker, Jr., of the First National Bank, and Seward Prosser, of Rankers Trust Co.
Though trading volume exceeded 9,000,000 chares, making Monday the second* heaviest trading session in Stock Exchange history, there was' a decided difference from the conditions prevalent on Thursday, last. Then, were numerous stocks in which there were virtually no market and many trying to sell out.
Yesterday bids were present, albeit they were not in sufficient volume to absorb the wave of selling and prevent wide breaks in leading issues. Presence of bids eliminated the hysterical atmosphere ■which prevailed Thursday, and though a wide price decline occurred, trading was conducted in a more orderly fa^hinn.
Orderly Trading, Banker*’ Aim
This was taken as an indication that the banking support was under the market, with a band on the throttle. As the Street understands the function of the banlung group it is not to attempt to accumulate a line of stocks but rather to permit more orderly processes of trading to be conducted. This group took an active and forceful attitude last Thursday to check the wave of hysteria and no doubt still stand ready to prevent a repetition of *the debacle of that session. It would appear from the number of Issues which did not reach new lows Monday that some sort of acting in concert by financial leaders was under way.
High authorities in Washington expressed the opinion that Monday’s break was a “temporary sinking spell following the heavy break last week and might**juot be expected to last long.” They held the view that business remains good and is even turning up in some branches, that •‘stocks are now selling at prices relative to their intrinsic values, and that while they may sink somewhat lower there is no reason to believe they will sink far.“
With all the Street focusing attention on the break in prices, which reached 30 to nearly 50 points in stocks like American Telephone, General Electric and Westinghouse, little thought was given to other factors. The forthcoming brokers’ loan statement, it is generally agreed, will show a shrinkage running into hundreds oi millions; the loans account for “others” will decline sharply as corporations, individuals and foreign lenders have been heavy withdrawers oi funds. That this has ’not caused any appreciable firming of money has been due to lighter demand and the fact leading banks have been willing lenders. Position of the New York member banks is exceptionally strong, practically all , leading institutions being out of debt to the Federal.
Time Money Offered at 6%
A signpost in the trend bt money was the lowering of time money ’offering rate to 6^: one lender had $1,500,000 available at that rate for 90 days, late Monday, the first time as low a rate has been quoted since July. 1928, and the first time in many months such a sizeable amount of time money had been on the market. From this the conclusion was drawn that money rates are definitely easing.
The tremendous turnover of shares again caused the Stock Exchange ticker to run far behind the market in recording transactions, it being 5:37a^ p. m. before the last transactions were recorded. The Dow-Jones industrial averages suffered the widest break for any day thus far, declining 38.33 points to 260.64, where they stood 120.53 points under the record high of 381.17 made September 3, just eight weeks ago. The previous record break was 20 66 points last Wednesday, October 23. The break on Thursday of last week resulted in the averages declining 6.38 points though at the lows that day tbe averages were much lower.
Day's Trading Second Largest
While the heaviest selling was under way, a statement issued by Jhe president of the Sun Life Insurance Co., one of the largest owners
of corporate equities, stated that company had been taking advantage of present prices to add to its holdings and that it was still buying.
I?ue to the unusually large volume of bust-				
nrss to be handled		the N. Y.	. Stock Exchange	
extended delivery	time on. Monday from t			2:15 to
2*30 p. m.				
The appended table shows			the closing	prices
for a group of leading stork’s.			the changes from	
Saturday’s closing		and 'the'	lows made last	
Thursday:				
		Change from		
			Sat's	Thurr.
		Close	close	low
American Can .		. 3 36	—17’-	337
Amer &: For Pr		.	77 ’A	—21'.	8a
Amer Tel & Tel		. 232	•—34	245
Anaconda				.	93'--	— D’i	
Balt & Ohio			. 315’.	—13’«	111’.
Beth Steel 			. 94	9S	
Can Pacific			. 203	— 9	200 ‘
Chrvslcr			.	40	— 5	43
Col Gas 			. 70	—2?	80
Col Graph			. 26-%	— 8%	27\,
Con Gas 			. 97	—20	TOR
Gen Elect 			. 250 "	"—47 y.	283
Gen Motors			.	47*2	— 5=Ji	49
Johns-Mansvillc .		. 232	—28	240
Kenn Copper ...		. 70	— ey.	67
Montg Ward ....		.	59*-	—15«»	50
N Y Central			. 386	—22	213’r
Radio 			. 40	1	
Sears-Roebuck ..		. 311 <	—16	315
SO of NJ			.	64 3*	— 8	61
Un Car & Car...		. 84	—20	90=^
Union Pac			. 240	—16	250
United Corp ....		.	38*3	— 8%	31 ’ .
U S Steel	. . .		. 3 86	—17’3	303’ »
Westing Electric	-	. 145	—34’.	360
From Tht. Wai.i St	MEET JOriAAt.		Wash tt.ggton	Purrau
WASHINGTON—High government officials expressed the opinion that Monday’s slump in the stock market was a temporary sinking spell following the heavy break of last week and might be expected not to last long. The slump was attributed to bankers rasing out of the support which they hurriedly had given tho market m Us sharp break last Thursday and to the decision of numerous small holders over the country to sell after their margins had been reduced.
Officials were persistent in the view that business is good and even turning up in some branches. They say that slocks are now selling at a price bearing closer relation to their intrinsic valucs.and that, while they may sink somewhat lower, there is no reason to believe they will sink much further. The reason they are strong intrinsically but weak m the market is attributed to tf>e large number of holders who are unwilling to carry the stocks until they recover.
It is not believed the slump in the market will have a great adverse effect on business generally. The view is that luxuries which holders had planned to purchase with their paper profits will not be bought, but this is not expected to have any effect on general merchandise because r.f the enormous wealth of the country outside of the stock market. While there are losers m the stock market, they do not constitute all the holders nor a large percentage of the buyers of the country.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.