Market Declines: Opposing Forces Battle in Dull Session--Late Break ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 19, 1929;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Opposing Forces Hattie in Dull Session—I-atc Hreak
The market closed sharply lower yesterday following over four hours of conflict between constructive forces and those committed to the decline. Professional raids, centered on pivotal issues became particularly acute in Consoli-anted Gas, Montgomery Ward and General Motors where repeated attempts were made to drive these issues below former resistance points or into new low territory. Aggressive support was encountered and little progress was made m either direction until just before the close when new low levels were reached in man5* issues.
An easier rate for call funds m the afternoon, when the rate declined from G'< to 5r,r. brought some fresh buying into the market which centered for the most part in the higher priced issues. American Telephone. American Tobacco. Western Union. General Klcctric and American Can responded to this influence with xathcr broad gams.
• • •
There was a preponderance ol selling orders
(	' 1 h nrtl t>« / <• 't > tr r ji r h
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Continued from Firet Page
the opening, following publication of the brokers’ loans, which showed an increase ot $88.000,000, which, was somewhat larger than fhe general expectation. Opening prices in U. S. Steel, Radio and other standard industrials showed declines and represented about the lowest prices for the greater part of the day in these issues. Repeated selling at various times during the session failed to dislodge any appreciable amount of stock and quotations showed moderate improvement until the final break.
Jl number of weak spots were encountered and new low prices in many special issues were uncovered during the day. Independent radio issues. the aviation stocks, notably Curtiss Wright. United Aircraft, and Bendix Aviation, and such issues as Brockway Motor.Truck, Murray Body and Yellow Truck m which active markets based on prospects had built up a large public long interest showed extensive liquidation.
Persistent selling of Consolidated Gas around its lowest price of the movement was used as a screen for covering operations in a number of other public utility issues where an extensive short interest exists. As a result the utilities, following their recent drastic readjustment, showed slightly better support.
Many traders believe the automobile stocks have been thoroughly liquidated. Leading executives in the industry consider automobile stocks cheap at these levels. This opinion, however, is based upon a comparison of the prices at which automooile stocks are selling m relation to earnings with the earnings price ratio of other industrial securities.
Some traders attach significance to the decline in motor shares as forecasting some retrenchment in business. Heavy buying by the automobile industry because of the record breaking pace of motor production during the past two years, has stimulated many other industries and has been one of the most important factors in prosperity. The statistical position of the industry indicates that some recession from recent record production levels may be expected. Predictions are made that production for 1930 will be considerably below production m 1929 and that volume of buying of many basic commodities which enter automobile manufacture will be considerably less.
The motoi industry this year will produce 5.GOO.000 cars and trucks Last year production was 4.601.130 and. in the year preceding, production was 3.380.000. The.->c remarkable gains do not represent expansion in the market as much ns they represent the recovery from a subnormally low point in 1927. There has been only moderate expansion in the industry for the past seven years. The average annual rate for cars and trucks was about I1”*', of total production annually, whereas the average for passenger cars alone was less than one-half of 2f,f. On a normal rate of growth, authorities believe t hat normal production for the industry in 1930 is around 4,650.000 cars and trucks and look for a leccssion m output to a more normal basis in 1930. since factors which accounted for the wide swings xn output during the past three years have been removed. Due to current low level of automobile prices and the great values offered, it is believed that leading companies can protect their profits through advanced prices m the event of lower output. But the significance attached to the decline in motor shares is that it forecasts a readjustment in the near future which will react unfavorably on other leading basic industries.
The October 16 bank statements present many confusing features. Temporary conditions have distorted the various figures. In the New York Reserve Bank, last week covered the period of heaviest check transactions of the whole year, due in part to a settlement day in the garment industry Tho heavy churning of funds greatly increased volume of interbank transactions and tended to increase the demand for federal reserve credit. In spite of the fact that peak of seasonal commercial credit demand has been passed in the New York banks as indicated by the reduction of $6S,000.000 in “all other’’ loans, the New York bank continued to purchase bankers acceptances, thus further easing credit.
One of the perplexing features of the bank reports was that brokers’ loans for account of ’’others’’ declined SG6,000,000. Generally when there is heavy new security financing, the volume of loans to brokers made by corporations and individuals tends to increase. It is likely that the reduction* last week indicates some private lenders have called loans for investment in other directions. If investment trusts purchased securities in volume during the reaction, loans for ••’others" would decline.
New York banks are still in strong position with borrowings from the Reserve bank at the low figure of $49,000,000, an increase of only $3,000,000 during the week. This small increase is the more surprising in view of the sharp increase in reserve requirements and in total loans and investments of the city banks.
* • •
Bethlehem Steel subscription rights expire on Monday, and it is expected that with the passing of the rights the stock will have some relief from selling pressure. Company in its one-for-three subscription privilege following a similar offering last June has called on stockholders to take up 78% additional stock in four months, a heavy burden even though subscription prices at 85 and 110 were attractive. Earnings and dividends are also due next week. It is estimated that net for the third .quarter will be around $5 a share on 2,400,000 common shares, bringing profits for the first nine months between $12 and $13 a share or more than double the current annual dividend of $6 a share. With the new offering there will be 3,200,000 shares outstanding.
Strength in Air Reduction has been based on expectation of a highly satisfactory earnings report for the third quarter next week, and a record showing for the current three months. Earnings for the year are estimated between $7 and $8 a share on 755,864 shares of stock compared with $4.60 on 696,793 shares in 1928. Company has a valuable equity in ownership of 50,000 shares of U. S. Industrial Alcohol carried at $4,406,192 and with a current market value in excess of $11,000,000.
Concerning International Combustion Engineering, brokers who have studied the situation say: *’The company has distinct merit. In its old line field it stands without a peer as the pioneer in scientific combustion and will probably always get a large share of the steampower installation business of the world. The present troubles arise entirely out of experimentation with low temperature coal distillation. The experiment conducted on a big scale in Milwaukee has not proved profitable and will probably entail a heavy charge-off. The experiment in New Brunswick, however, has all the ear-marks of being a big success and scientific men are watching it with great interest. It is probable that the company has poured in the neighborhood of $8,000,000 into .its two low temperature coal distillation processes and this
has temporarily embarrassed the working capital position. The stock might drift lower as a non-dividend payer, but it seems fair to assume that it will be picked up by important interests with the view of holding for long pull appreciation and it is not beyond reason to expect that control of the company will some day be lodged with strong financial interests."
* • • •
There was a sharp break in several of the independent radio issues carrying some of these issues to new low levels for the year. Radio Corp, held steady. Crosley, Bolster and Zenith Showed broad declines with Crosley down more than 10 points, Bolster off 3 and Zenith several points lower. Selling m these issues was brought about by the expectation of strong competition from General Motors Radio, which according to the recent announcement, expects to enter the radio field on a far-reaching scale.
* « *
Selling in General Motors was induced by the monthly sales report for September, whicn showed a further decline. Sales to dealers last month were 146,483 units, showing a decline oi 21,702 from August and a decline of 20,977, compared with September a year ago. Compared with the peak in April of 227,718 units, sales last month were down 81,235 units. Sales for the nine months are still above those ot 1928, the total of 1,675,964 comparing with 1,606,902.
Although sales for the last two months nave been below the corresponding period a year ago, a more satistactory comparison ot sales may be expected during the current three months. Last year, the corporation sold 203,904 units in the final quarter of the year and there is every indication that this total will be exceeded this year and the corporation will wind up the year with a new high record in sales. Earnings for the first nine months are expected to show a decline of about 8%, compared with profits in 1928, but results for the current quarter are expected to be somewhat better than in the corresponding quarter of last year.
Advance in Warren Bros., both the common and preferred stocks, has been accompanied by a variety of reports concerning impending developments. A split-up of the common shares is considered a nearby possibility. To account for the advance in the first preferred to a new high for the year, there is the possibility ot a new stock offering involving rights and an offer by the company to buy in the first and second preferred for retirement. Neither issue is callable and both have the same rights of subscription to new stock as the common. There are 39.734 shares of first preferred carrying a $3 annual dividend and 9,933 shares of second preferred.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.