Heavy Selling-
Heavy Selling: Leading Stocks Decline Under Large Offerings Heavy Selling Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 31, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Dcaillny Stocks Decline L'ndcr I.tirgc Dff crittgit
Further heavy selling took place in the principal stocks yesterday. U. S. Steel made a brief ad\ance in the early dealings resj*>nding to the statement of the corporation’s finance committee that conditions in the industry pointed to increasing operations during the balance of the current quarter, with an improvement in volume during the final three months of the year.
Considerable disappointment was felt in speculative quarters when Steel failed to hold its gain on this highly constructive utterance. Bearish professionals read into this performance a vulnerable technical position in the general market, and aggressive pressure was renewed on the outstanding industrial shares.
Extensive declines were forced in Steel. American Can. Westinghouse Electric and other pivotal issues, and sharp breaks occurred in Vanadium, Warner Bros., Safeway Stores. V. S. Industrial Alcohol and other specialties. Selling operations picked up momentum in the early afternoon following publication of a statement by the Iron Age that Ford Motor Co.
Conrtmtftl on
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Continued /rowi First Pagt might extend its shutdown annth^r week because ©f large stocks of cars in dealers’ hands.
This statement gave fresh courage to the bear forces, and active stocks were pushed to new Iowa on the current reaction. However, the Ford report was discredited in Detroit automobile circles where nothing has been heard of such a plan.
A Detroit dispatch to Dow. Jones & Co. pointed out that Ford had notified workers through the local press that plants would re-»pen on August 4. and there had been no indications that, this program had been changed. It was also stated that when the plants originally shut down on July K, the assembly lines were continued in operation to supply local dealers with sufficient cars, indicating that unsold stocks on hand were of moderate proportions. It is believed that such a condition is general throughout the country.
Heavy selling on the Ford story brought organized support into the leading stocks. Large scale buying was conducted by interests prominent in the bullish demonstrations since early July. M. J. Meehan took large blocks of Steel. American Can. Westinghouse Electric, and standard of New Jersey. Excellent buying also was reported in other representative stocks throughout the list.
While some improvement took place start of the last hour, price movements
dealings were highly irregular. Steel common was helped by the Dow-Jones analysis calling attention to the probability of an extra' dividend later in the year. However, buying1 lacked aggressiveness, and continued pressure I by the bears caused considerable unscttlemcnt1 as the session drew to a close.	I
1	* • •	I
at the in the
* Unquestionably, the renewal of professional operations for the decline was stimulated by! tbe persistent resistance encountered over the ! Idst ten days on efforts to extend the rally j from the June lows. Industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages advanced to 240.57 on July , 18. representing a recovery of just short of, 50% on the ground lost on the decline from ( “Mny 29 to June 24. Following a setback to ' 229.29 by July 21, the principal industrials again I met selling on a rally to 239.33 on July 23. 1 After a slight setback from this point, tt.c . compilation recovered to what was practically a duplication of the July 18 high at 240.81 on July 28.	,
Having failed to rise above the 240 level m a substantial way on three distinct attempts, | the industrials demonstrated that considerable J selling was in the market around that figure. ! Remembering what happened to the general . list when the May rally faltered nt the 275 level, bearish professionals resumed their hammering tactics on the theory that a reaction of at least half the extent of the July recovery could be brought about.	;
However, the time element is favoring the side of rising prices. Since July IS nothing has happened to suggest that the principal trading : stocks were engaged in more than technical correction of their position following the substantial rebound from the June 24 lows. When tho , May upswing reached its peak on the 29th of , the month, no hesitation was shown in resuming the downward movement. Within 10 days, the industrial average was down 25 points, and tho decline continued to the June 21 low of 211.81. General list currently has been backing and filling without displaying a definite trend since , July 18.	’
July would show a steadily higher declining tendency. In lhe week previous output was down 3 1-3%. the highest decline of the year, although for 1930 to date output of th* country is still above a year ago. To counteract the
slack caused by industrial curtailment most utility organizations have been instituting aggressive campaigns to im* rr»x c their rommercia and residential loads and hiv • reported satisfactory results.
Of course, if the Dow-Jones industrial aver-' age should drop m the near future to below the J 229.29 level of July 21. it would suggest that * lower levels would have to be sought until a t sounder basis was found on which permanent , improvement might be erected. But, meanwhile, ' the optimistic statement regarding business : prospects issued by the finance committee of V. S. Steel Corp, at least absolves the market of the charge that the upswing since the end of , June has been due to professional manipulation rather than a better trade outlook.	1
Prediction of Steel’s finance committee points' to sustained improvement m operations since it' covers not only the balance of the current1 quarter, but also extends to the final three1 months of the year. Myron C. Taylor is chair- ’ man of the committee, and its other members ’ are George F. Baker, J. P. Morgan. T. W.' Lamont, James A. Farrell, Percival Roberts Jr., I Nathan L. Miller. W. J. Filbert, and George F.! Baker Jr. These men are representative of the: most powerful industrial and financial interests, of the country. Their optimism suggests that1 the recovery in stock prices this month has i been something more than an effort by an organized bull crowd to lift the market by its boot straps.
Recent improvement in sentiment regarding conditions in the oil industry was increased by the further reduction of 11.400 barrels daily in crude production during the week ended July 26. Daily average of 2.4 88.700 barrels in that period was 407.950 -barrels daily nbelow the corresponding 1929 period, and was the lowest level since 1928
While there was an increase in oil refining operations last week, ns reported to the American Petroleum Institute, to 71.4% from 69.3% in the preceding week, this is not regarded in the trade with apprehension. It is pointed out that this is the time for the stocking of fuel oil to provide for tho demand latoi in the year This is true of the Gulf Coast area, where operations last week increased 74.6Si.
Iron and steel reviews of the week did not bring forth anything very encouraging with regard to the immediate future of the steel industry. Only new development of importance was the ordering of nearly 60,000 tons of rails by the Van Sweringen lines and indications that other roads would place annual requirement earlier than usual this year. While this is encouraging to some extent, it would not help steel operations immediately, as railroads have been tardy in specifying against current contracts. Pipe lines, structural steel, and shipbuilding continued in their role as supporters of the steel market, but nothing unusual developed even m these steel consuming divisions.
Sentiment continues hopeful in the trade, however, but definite signs of the awaited recovery are still sought for without success. Steel output is holding well, but there is little on which to base a forecast of exactly how much better steel business will be in a month or two than it is now. Finished steel prices are holding fairly well, but there have been further concessions granted in some pig iron * natural, as pig iron prices were declining
to SI.7', from The midcontinent also ran more crude to stills than in week ended July 19. raising the operating rate to 67.7% from 616%.
However. California accounted for the greatest portion of the gain, plants in that state operating on the basis of 64.2% of capacity, compared with 58.2% in preceding week. However, with the exception of the Rocky Mountain and Louisiana-Arkansas refining districts, California is operating on a lower scale than any other district of the country.
Gasoline storage showed a further decline last week of 1.186.000 barrels, following a reduction of 1.855,000 barrels in week ended July 19. The net increase recorded since the beginning of the year at refineries reporting to the institute H being rapidly whittled away, standing at 2.791.000 barrels on July 26. with the total amount on hand at 11,751,000 barrels. Since June 2S. fineries have the extent of
recut into the gasoline storage to 4,919,000 barrels.
While at
lines. This seems only quotations held while steel earlier in the year.
the week ended July from the substantial
Carloadings report for 19 reflected little change declines which have been recorded in recent weeks. Freight loadings for the week totaled 928,256 cars. This was a decline of 14.0% from the corresponding 1929 week, which was a slight improvement over the 14.1% decline which was shown by the preceding week in comparison with 1929. With the exception of the preceding week and the week ended June 28, when the drop was 14.6%, the decline for the latest reported week was the most severe, on a percentage basis, for any week this year.
Comparisons with the corresponding period in 1928 also give little encouragement. The drop for tbe week ended July 19, as compared with 1928, amounted to 10.2%. With the exception of the preceding week, when the drop was 10.6%, this was the sharpest decline from 1928 registered by the loadings figures so far this year.
country was corresponding
That electric output for the down but 2$© last week from the 1929 period was a surprise to the utility trade, it being generally believed that the month of
the moment, foreign exchanges, principally sterling and the major Continentals, show signs of weakening, incident to the end of the month, underlying tone is strong and foreign exchange traders are bullish over the future. There are no indications that the outward flow of gold has any where near run its course. Rather the future holds a promise of a major outward movement. It is freely predicted that France will take at least 8100,000,000. Canadian exchange has a very sensitive market here. But it is noteworthy that the shipments of metal have not weakened position of Montreal funds. So long as conditions remain as they are now it appears prooable that Canada will take a substantial amount.
These two movements have widely different meanings. In the case of France, the shifting of gold reserves between Now York and Paris are of less significance at present than movement lrom New York to Montreal. The French shipments are merely an exchange of metal from one country with excess gold reserves to another country also with excess gold holdings. But every dollar of gold that Canada receives ij- oi vital importance to that nation, as Canada has suffered serious impairment of her metallic reserves. Whatever gold she can secure now will aid in materially strengthening her credit structure.
The same holds true witli England. The past year or more has been a difficult period for the Bank of England. If the pound advances to the gold export point in New York, there will set in another redistribution of gold from the United States which has too much for its immediate needs to England which has been forced to operate on an extremely narrow margin.
So long as the outward flow affects only sur* plus supplies, every shipment that can be made to a foreign country in need of metal will hasten the recovery of business, not only in those nations receiving the metal, but, by increase in foreign trade, in all the world. Whatever gold the United States can send for some time yet to such countries, therefore, should be viewed as a stimulating and bullish factor and not as a dangerous development.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.