Sharp Rallies: Stocks Score Further Recoveries From Recent Lows--Money Easy Sharp Rallies
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 7, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Stocks ,Score Further Recoveries
From Recent Lozes—Afonry/
j Stocks scored further extensive recoveries
•	yesterday from the drastic declines of the past
' week. In view of the ten-point recovery in the
•	industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages ’ ; in the last few minutes of Monday’s session. I
it was assumed that distress selling and frightened liquidation had run its course, and this conclusion caused substantial short covering in many sections of the list.
j Price movements m the first hour or so were
; somewhat irregular, due to left-oi cr ndjustmerts of impaired marginal accounts Considerable
I profit-taking also went ahead for th** account
1 of nimble operators who picked up stocks around Mondays lows in anticipation of <l technical rebound.
. IIowc\rr. offerings of this chara-'^r were mopped up without further rccess.rns of importance. Around noon the rallv was rerumed on a broad fiont. attaining aggrc«s.ve proportions <	7 •< r».r y-l h J't '/•*
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Cnti*	/*•*»»**
tri* early afterixx)n. Bears who sold cn the initial recovery were thrown into retreat, and ftweepxng rallies took place m storks which had suffered severely on the recent declines.
Stocks like Worthirgton Pump. Allied Ch-m-leal. J. I Case. American Power & Light and Westinghouse Electric staged recoveries run- | ning- up to 40 points. Steel. General Electric, i American Can. Consolidated Gas and American j Telephone improved upon the best levels reached m -Monday's late tradxrg. and the market ns c whole showed relief from the recent pressure.
• • •
Copper shares were an exception to the generally better tone of the market New lows on the movement were reached by Anaconda. Ken-necott and other leaders of this class on the prospect that the further reduction in the price of the metal would be followed by still lower levels in the near future.
On the other hand, tobacco shares displayed special strength on favorable earnings, and the outlook for generous distributions to shareholders later in the year. American Tobacco B stood out prominently, running up to record levels for the present shares.
Rallying tendencies in the general list were given impetus by the comfortable situation existing in credit. Call money was in oversupply at the renewal rate of 3’xrr, and the drop in the official figure to Z' r was followed by large offering” outside at 212r<.
In view of the large volume of selling in Friday’s last hour, and m Saturday’s nnd Mon- , day's session. Wall Street was looking for al substantial decrease m brokers’ loans in the ’ weekly statement due after Thursday’s close. Following lhe extensive correction of technical J conditions m the general list resulting from the 1 recent drastic, declines, most observers felt that a. good recovery would bo seen in issues under J g^vprp pressure over the last two weeks	•
However, the best opinion was that no immediate resumption of the general advance ; would occur. Speculative enthusiasm has been ’ definitely dampened by developments since the middle of April, and past experience points to ’ a. period of dullness in the market as a whole. ■ After short covering has spent itself, it is felt that a substantial decrease in the volume , of dealings will be seen, and that pivotal sharer j will move in a narrow range until a better Im* , can be obtained on business prospect® over the rema.nder of the year. It was argued that the ehake-out had resulted m substantial revision of ideas regarding the scope of business recovery in the second quarter, and that trading in coming weeks would reflect a more con-Bervativc attitude concerning the economic outlook.
• • •
Condition statement of the reporting member banks m leading cities shows a continuation of the trends that have been evident for some time —r-amcly an increasing volume of security loans and a declining volume of commercial loans. Commercial loans, classified in tho reports as “all other” loans, declined S46.000.C00 last week, bringing the total down to SS.5S3.000.000. or S4S4.000.000 below a year ago. and within S50.-000.000 of lhe lowest figure reported m four year.”. Ord.narilv there is n tendency for th*' volume of rommcic.al loaz s either to decl.no rVghtly or tn remain stead;,* from early April ’ to late May but this year the decline has been' more prer.pitato than usual	|
At So.3Sl 000.000 security loans of reporting member b^nks arc at the highest figure ever with the exception of the emergency period over the end of last October and the first week of November. These loans are currently $1,007,000.000 above a year ago, SI.30] .000.000 above two years ago and SG34.000.000 above September 4 1929. when the stock market was at its peak. | Considering the plentiful supply of credit and j the current low rates it is surprising that banks’ i investment® have not shown greater expansion I Currently they total S5.791.000.000, or SS4.000.000 below a year ago and $375 000.000 below two years ago Investments have increased only S2SP.000.000 from the low point of thn year, as compared with a S740.000.000 expansion in security loans from the first of Lhe year.
W. C. Durant has cabled from Tans: “I notice that Cor^rccs has voted to investigate the Federal Reserve Board, which by its unwise and unwarranted policies, forced the retirement of constructive leadership and turned the security markets over to the wreckers of values and the gamblers of Wall Street, rcsultirg in the greatest financial panic in history.
“I am hopeful that tho investigation for which I have for many months been honestly* working will result m a most needed correction of the present deplorable situation ard that investors and business interests will be afforded the protection to which they are entitled. I propose immediately tn organize a constructive group for the purprre of offer.ng a measure of relief and a reasonable market control.
“I now wish to go on record that stocks of well-managed companies of recognized value regardless of the temporary business depression brought about by ill-advised Federal Reserve policies, can now be purchased for investment.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.