Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 18, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
^4 Daily Column of Comment
Criticism of Copper Advance
Considerable criticism is heard concerning the sharp advance which occurred recently m copper metal, but that has come from those who have been, short of copper stocks. Sellers of the red metal maintain, that part of the upturn was due primarily to the active bidding by consumers to replenish depleted stocks and cover known requirements. Naturally, some of the producers withdrew from the market because they were selling metal below the cost of production. When the pressure of offerings lifted, the buyers found it necessary to bid up the pnee to obtain their prospective needs.
Rail Earnings May Test Market Soon
The market may be put to a test soon with the publication of railroad earnings for October. Considerable will depend upon the action of the rails when the earnings are published. If the carrier group holds well, indicating that it has been, well deflated, the influence on the remainder of the market should be favorable.
Consolidated Gas Was Oversold
Consolidated Gas was oversold heavily dur-. ing the recent reaction, it is the growing belief; m important quarters. Bear traders pressed the stock, following the election results, and the lower price for the issue uncovered stop-1 loss orders which increased the supply. Good' scale buying was encountered on the decline, I because Gas is looked upon as one of the logical leaders m the utility field.	|
Reynolds’ Tenth	I
Successive Record	|
Prospects indicate that	Reynolds	Tobacco,
will establish a record in net	income for	1930. |
which will be the tenth consecutive year that, 4he company has registered a gain in its earnings. Conservative estimates are that the company will show around $3.60 a share on the combined common and Class B outstanding. That would place the income for the year in the neighborhood of $36,000,000. compared with the previous record of $32,210*521, established, in 1929.	I
International Nickel Reducing Its Costs
Advices from Canada state that officials of the International Nickel Co. estimate that recent reductions in staffs and operating economies brought about in new mining and treatment methods will result in a saving of S3.000.-000 a year m costs without loss of production. Buying in Youngs town
Sheet & Tube
Quiet buying has been reported in Youngstown Sheet & Tube at times recently. The company is one of the few independents which was able to cover its dividend in the third quarter, and should benefit with any change for the better in the steel industry. No attempt has been made to accumulate the stock ; on a large scale, because of the wide spread between bid and asked prices at times, but oddJot scale demand has appeared on recessions.
Ample Margin Over New Haven Dividend
A number of interests have been recommending scale buying of New Haven. That has brought an outside demand into the stock. The management has effected economies which have permitted the road to pass through a period of depression m an impressive manner. Official estimates have indicated that $5 85 a share was earned in the first ten months, so that the $6 a share annual dividend fox* 1930 should be covered by an ample margin, which is considered satisfactory under present general conditions.
Air Reduction More in Favor
Statements that the October business of Air Reduction was ahead of September, and that November business promises to show a gain over the preceding month have brought Air Reduction in greater favor with those who are hoping for an improved stock market. Net income for the first nine months was nearly as large as in the corresponding period of last year, despite the business depression in that period. In some quarters, it is contended that the big expansion in pipe line construction has been a stabilizing factor in the company’s activities year year.
s>inng orders accumulated over Sunday, causing lower prices at the opening of the stock market yesterday. It was natural that the higher prices which were established as a result of the five consecutive days of upturns should attract profit taking. Many interests believed that the unturn had been a trifle too rapid and , insisted that a technical recession was likely. ! Sear traders, seeing a halt tn the advancing j tendency, put out stocks, increasing the supply and forcing the market to lower levels after the initial losses.
Evidence of support appeared on the reactions. Purchasing at those periods was not aggressive, but such buying in many of the leading stocks served to keep the recession orderly. Those who had been working on the long side last week ceased their buying activities when the reactions took place, leaving the market in the hands of the professionals. Short covering was extensive as lower levels were reached, and such demand is likely to act as a prop for the market on any future declines.
The small volume was viewed as encouraging. Attention was called to the fact that when stocks were moving ahead last week, sharp gains developed in the turnover. Therefore, the reduced trading on the reactions was considered significant.
Sentiment has not changed. Leading observers were advising clients to pick up standard stocks on a scale during reactions. They were in favor of placing orders at around the recent lows, with stops fox protection. Most of them -were pointing to the technical setback as showing that thej* were correct m warning customers against reaching for stocks on the upturns late last week.
Traders Sold on Balance
Professionals and floor traders were sellers on balance. Those operators were taking profits actively on purchases made at lower levels a week ago. and that supply more than offset the short covering.
Commission houses had some selling orders at the opening. Later, the lower prices attracted buying by the public, and the leading firms were credited with having bought on balance.
Leaders Favor Rising Market
Leaders in industry as well as finance are known to favor a rising market for securities. The theory is that any improvement in stocks will bring a change in business sentiment and cause a gradual return of confidence.
Important leaders would not look with favor on any spectacular or sensational upward movement. but feel confident that an orderly -mark-pt with necessitous liquidation out of the way, and with evidence of support when technical reactions develop, would be a most constructive development.
Secondary Reaction Likely Development
Precedent does not justify a sustained upward movement on the first rally after a prolonged decline. While the turn in the market was due to short covering and scale support by important interests, those who have been so successful on the short side probably will test the market again and bring about what is popularly known as a second reaction.
The action of the market during such an adjustment will be decidedly important. If standard stocks encounter support at or above their lows of early last week, it will be considered a most encouraging development. Breaking through into new low ground, however, could delay the beginning of a more prolonged recovery for a time. Students will give the market more attention in the next few weeks than in some time, seeking a sign of confirmation of a definite turn.
More Interest by
Steel Consumers
Steel trade reports are that the establishment of minimums has resulted in some consumers showing more interest in the market. They arc not placing large orders, but a few have discussed their prospective requirements with the leading steel companies. Sooner or later, those users will be putting out inquiries. Actual purchases may be delayed until after year-end inventories have been taken. Most steel consumers are carrying a subnormal stock.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.