Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 17, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
A Daily Column of Comment
Pronounced unsettiement came into the stock market yesterday. For a time during the early dealings, good support was given the leading shares, which caused short covering on a rather large scale. That combined buying caused an impressive rally In most stocks, with. U. S. Steel, American	and American Telephone moving
ahead and affecting the entire market.
Just about the time evidence appeared of some encouragement in market circles, a break developed in the bank stocks. That factor apparently was construed as most important, as it started a new selling movement in the listed issues which uncovered nearby stop-loss orders and brought reactions of sharp proportions in all classes of stocks. -
Attacks were made against the leading rails which unsettled sentiment, and weakness also cropped out in the oil group and in some of the public utilities. The pivotal industrials could not hold in the face of the. new liquidation. Indications again were seen of forced liquidation, as some stocks were being thrown over for a time.
Just before the close, -abort covering was. resumed, and caused moderate rallies In various issues. Again, however, the small upturns attracted new selling, showing that some stock had been hanging over the market and was being liquidated when bids appeared.
Conservative observers again are looking for a selling climax. They point out that if the market has a session or two of heavx volume with sharp reactions, a substantial recovery esn develop. Some of them are inclined to advise clients to try for such a rally if the climactic conditions develop and the market indicates a turning movement. They admonish followers to be willing to accept a moderate profit on such purchases, and also favor	--
counts with stop orders placed whatever lows are established decline.	'
,ket will improve after the turn of the year. At times in recent weeks, the weakness in bonds has been an important market. Therefore, a should have a beneficial
influence in the better tone in effect on stocks.
stock * bonds
execute orders
from

f
protecting ac-sllghtly above during; such a
Traders Sold On Balance	t
Professionals and floor traders covered shorts during the forenoon, but when bank stocks broke and listed shares showed little ability to hold, those operators starting pressing the market again and were activate supplying the list during the late afternoon. As a result, that element sold on balance.
Commission houses reported considerable liquidation on the early upturn. Later, the lower prices attracted increased odd-lot investment Buying again, and the larger firms were buyers on balance.
Foreign Liquidation Ha* Been Heavy*
Houses which often abroad admit that foreign liquidation of securities has been on a comparatively large scale in recent sessions. Unsettlement in some of the European political situations may have been responsible fdr part of that selling. Unwarranted rumors concernings banking conditions here also are said to have been a factor.
Support Resumed in Pivotal Stock*
Support was in evidence again in the pivotal shares. Good buying has been experienced in some of these stocks right along. Conservative observers of the market have been insisting that the buying has been of a considerably better character than*the selling, because some of the liquidation was of a necessitous nature.
Dividend DiscuMdoxx on American Can
Wall Street again is discussing American Can dividend prospects. Although an extra was declared only about three months ago, some interests hold that the directors may, increase the regular annual basis from 54 to $5 a share in the near future. The argument is advanced that such action could be taken in view of the good earnings estimated for this year and the prospects for favorable conditions in the can-making industry next year. Good buying is reported to have come into the stock recently on a downward scale.
Otis Elevator Doing Well	e
Otis Elevator has been doing comparatively well this year despite the general depression in business. For the nine months ended September 30, last, profits were only slightly below those for the corresponding period of last year. Estimates indicate that for the current year, results will be equal to between $3.25 and $3.50 *t>n the stock, which would compare with $3.99 a share last year and $3.47 in 1928.
Considerable of the company’s work in this country has been the replacement of old anH obsolete elevators. That has made up for part of the decrease in new business caused by reduced ^building in many sections. In addition, the company’s foreign division of operations has been a source of some revenue. At present, associated companies are located in 18 foreign countries, while sales agencies are maintained in 22 additional countries.
Working Toward '
Firmer Foundation
Factors like the high yields obtainable on standard dividend paying stocks, the unusual ease in money rates and the liquidation of loans are important, but they are not sufficient to turn the market without signs of Improvement in business.
However, economists point out that all influences are working in the right direction, and that the factors in the market are improving steadily the foundation for better conditions ''later. 'While they refrain from making any definite prediction concerning a decided turn, they emphasize the firmer base which is being established and from which an advancing market must start eventually.
Precedent Indicates	•
Depression Near End
Many developments in recent weeks have encouraged the opinion among students that the market as well as business are In the culminating phase of the prolonged depression. Precedent indicates some Justification for that contention.
In 1907 and 1921. somewhat similar conditions marked the climax cl the dislocation in business and securities. In those periods, many disturbing rumors were heard and sentiment was unusually pessimistic but those developments came just prior to the turn.
Always, time must elapse before a change for the better becomes evidefit to all. Just how long a period will bp required Is problematical, but the readjustments are proceeding, and interests looking far into^the future are satisfied with the progress.
Bank Activity
In Bond Market	.	.	......______________
Many banks in recent weeks have been re- <tlso has been a target for short selling by the ductng their holdings of so-called non-govem- ’	' '	'	‘	'
ment bonds, and have been adding to their holdings of government issues.’ The withdrawal of large sums of money from banks to meet the holiday demands has necessitated some liquidation of securities which are not rediscountable. * *
Because of that condition, some bond authorities are of the opinion that the bond mar-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Xatlonal Biscuit** Earning* Held	w
National Biscuit’s earnings this year held rather well, because^ the company benefited from lower commodity prices, and the demand for its products is relatively stable. The company reported an increase in earnings for the first nine months of about 5co over those of the corresponding period last year, whereas the results of 21 leading manufacturers and distributors of food products recorded a decrease of 5<~c in that period. Thus. Xational Biscuit has done better than others in the food line. The company is the largest manufacturer of biscuits In the world, and is expanding steadily. Expansion of the parent company always has been accomplished entirely '	“
acquisitions have change of stock.
Mack Trucks* 1930 Earning*
Interests close	___ _
earnings this year will be close to $4 a share, which is the dividend rate established bv the recent reduction to a $1 a share quarterly basis. Previously, 56 a share had been paid. Under normal conditions. Mack has substantial earning power, but the condition of general business this year naturally resulted in a smaller demand and will be reflected in the earnings.
Liquidation in Anaconda Copper
■ Liquidation has been coming Into Anaconda Copper from many quarters, although the stock
out of earning's, but all been made throngh the ex-
/
to Mack Trucks estimate that
bears. The latest supply was the result of the inability of copper producers to hold up the price of the metal. Other copper stocks also have suffered from that development. However, more attention has been attracted to Anaconda because of the approaching* dividend meeting ‘and the general comment around the Street that further unfavorable action is likely because of current conditions.