New Low Levels: Market Leaders Drop on Small Volume of Trading New Low Levels Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 7, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
N ew Low Levels
Market Leaders Drop on Small Volume of Trading
On a moderate volume of selling1, stock market prices declined sharply Monday, showing losses of from 2 to 6 points among active leaders in the opening transactions. Several representative issues with investment rating dropped to new low levels for the year to date and the unsatisfactory action of these issues had an unsettling effect on the entire market structure.
Revolutionary disturbances in South America brought to the attention of the trading community by the development of serious outbreaks in Brazil, called notice to another phase of the upset conditions of the world outside the United States and their possible effect on this country’s export trade. That the Brazilian movement is regarded seriously was indicated by wide breaks m the coffee market where prices dropped sharply to the lowest levels since 1921.	’
e •	•
The disturbing nature of the week-end news developments from outside the United States with added details of the current unsettled industrial situation at home was not conducive to improved market sentiment. Followed by sharp declines in the early trading, these factors made it Impossible to generate any huffish enthusiasm in Wall Street trading circles.
After the force of the early selling had spent Continued on Eiffhteenth I'ayc
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
from Firvt Pcfft
tbe market turned dull and the price wnviimut became extremely erratic. There was XiWe tarTmatwn among professionals to follow •sther the feeble rallies or aggressively to work for a further decline.
For the greater part of the session prices drafted oe sms 11 volume. Some of the higher priced issues. including Kastman Kodak. Allied Owmeal. Consolidated Gas. Canadian Pacific. American Telephone and United States Steel dropped to still lower levels, but the most dis-tuituiig feature of the movement was the tendency of trading to dry up almost completely on suet moderate rallies as took place from time Xo time
Selling in the utilities became pronounced ^srmg the early afternoon. Wide breaks were sbowx by American A Foreign Power. American Water Works Columbia Gas and similar issues m this group. The railroad shares were un-•etzlec by declines to new low levels in various high grade issues including New York Central, Baltimore A Ohio. Atchison. Canadian Pacific •nd others The Industrial section of the list hugged the day s lowest prices, which, in numerous instances, were close to the lowest points the year to date Professional operations converged in an attempt to break pivotal issues into new low territory for the year.
Selling for the account of a large investment trust was given as the cause for the early decline in American Telephone & Telegraph. There was also some short selling in the issue «* belief that the forthcoming third quarter report would reflect the general decline in business us lower profits. Although these tactics have proved successful recently, there is no comfort in a long-term bearish position in the stock fiwmg tv the small floating supply in the Street.
At around 2<10 American Telephone, exclusive of the regular issues of rights, yields *	'• which is above many of the savings’ banks
»*■* interest rates and undoubtedly any further break will add tn the company’s present list of more than 300 ooo shareholders. The company has lnrge undivided equities In its 24 associated companies and apart from these has rarely earned more than S3 to $3.50 above the dividend Assuming that this is going to he a poor year throughout, it is probable that eam-mgs will be between $10 and Sil a share.
It xs the belief on the floor that selling of many high grade issues represents liquidation by investment Trusts who have seen fit to reduce their portfolios Such offerings have met a thir. market The reason advanced for this selling is that whereas many issues of a more | speculative tvpe have declined to rock bottom j values in some cases representing levels much! intrinsic asset values, the so-called “blue i cr.ipu have not reflected business uncertainties j to tne same extent. In some of the low priced ' issues selling has also come from pools which i nave found littl* public interest in their favorites j after the usual mark-up Operators familiar with the activities of leading bearish profes-e onais see httie evidence of extensive participator. bv the latter in the current decline. Al-tnougn some of the leaders in the bear crowd mntmiie to hold their pessimistic view concerning the outlook they have shown little inclination aggressively to follow the market down rt»-sp:tr *vidences- of considerable weak-kneed xmeertainty m the bull camp.
Sales report of F. W. Woolworth Co. held arrme encouraging features beyond the gain oi four-tentns of l’r xn the volume ot business in September as compared vv4th September a year ago As an indication of improved business, President Parson pointed out that old stores in active industrial centers showed a gam of 5*> rr scales compared with a loss of 6.32C< in August by the same stores. In other districts, the decline for old stores in September is only 7’ir'r. against a loss by the same stores of 16’-:% in August.
While common stocks of an investment nature were being subjected to heavy selling early in the session, and were declining sharply, X* S Steel preferred appeared on the tape at 150. off	from the previous close. At this
level it was off only l’< points from its extreme lugn of the year to date and seemed to indicate -h** evervthing is still tranquil in strictly investment'circles. As both steel preferred and common receive $7 in dividends, the advance of rhe former and the decline of the latter have tOTTMghr th* issues to a level where they show practically the same yield.
In a discussion of the construction industry this vear. Dominick & Dominick point out that contracts awarded for public works and utilities during the first seven months of the current vear were 10"^ greater than for the corresponding period of 1929. most of this gam being due to th* extensive construction of pipelines and mghwavs rather than to the erection of new buildings. This increase in public utility and engineering work, contracts for which amounted to $5*63.605.000 in the first seven months as compared with $873,526,000 in corresponding period of 1929. has been due largely to the efforts of tbe government and of business leaders to stimulate building activities. Another helpful factor been the improvement in the bond market, which has resulted in the flotation of an exceptionally large number of long term state and municipal bond issues for construction purposes. Tbe monthly average of such issues during the first four months of this year was $24,800,000 larger than the average for the same period a year ago.
• • *
The quiet selling of several high-grade Investment issues last week was followed by new low ieveis in representative issues in this group particularly m the railroad section. The dem such issues as New York Central and mmols Central which touched new low levels at and 108 respectively on Saturday brought additional selling into this group as well as into moustnais of similar calibre Southern Railway ■-? Northern Pacific also went to new low fe- the year. the former at 693i and the at 59-»’ Marker in these stocks were unusual.v narrow and indicated a lack of supporting orders under the market rather than - b*avv or urgent liquidation.
Tb* commodity markets which are being wattbed bv traders for the first lndica-- of a p*rmanent change in the downward irvnd followed the g*n*ral course of the stock marae". toward tbe latter part of tbe week. On there * as a strong early rally in these —< fol.owed b> a decline toward the close ■-•r x/w*r i*veu for the day Wheat on Mon-w*ex soid at the lowest levels since
XPC* Ccstoc tu>ucned its lowest level since 1915 -- Tuesdav Sugar futures declined sharply **rrr zx the «eex and crude rubber went to the wan	m mstory at tbe same time. Tbe
matter part of toe wees showed substantial re-ruwrws m tbes* market*, but the movement
impressive to indicate that had. been mchecL
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.