Rails Weak: Carrier Shares Break Through November Level of Resistance Rails Weak Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 25, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Carrier Share* Ureal.' Th ruur/h .Vo-reaiher I.etel of Re*i*tance
Renewed unsettlement whs created on the Stock Exchange yesterday by a heavy selling movement tn the principal rails. Cartier shares used in the Oow-Jones averages closed Munday at 12S 8S, compared with an extreme low of 128 07 on the October-November collapse
With the compilation thus dangerously near the previous resistance level, bearish professional* made an aggress:-, e drive on pnotal rails, figuring that renewed liquidation would be started in the genera! list by a new low in this department. By the close. the Dow-Jones railroad average had been forced down to 126 a loss of 2 SR points on the day. and the lowest level reached since Manh 9. 1927.
E>oubta regarding the company’s ability tn earn its SB common dividend requirements th.s year caused special pressure to be exerted sgianst Southern Railway, which d-opped to its lowest price since 3P2.r». Sharp ded.ne* ai«n took place in New York Central. Atchison Rock Island, St. L»ouis-San Erancisco. New Haven and Baltimore A- Ohio. Selling of the rails received stimulus from the unfavnranle character of current earnings statements, and the relatively small volume of freight t’-affir which is moving at the lowest levels since 1924.
• • •
Impetus was also imparted to the movement Continued on Twenry-seeond r*aff*
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Case suffered another perpendic-
... *
proved able during the morning some further progress on the re-
Industrials hours to make	_	_
covery which started in Monday's later trading. However, prices in this department slowly gave ground as the decline in the rails gathered momentum.
Steel common staged a brief rally around 2 o’clock on the announcement by Dow. Jones & Co. that the corporation's operations had declined only 1% to 71% during the past week whereas the financial community had been looking for a substantially larger reduction. But the fact the production for the industry as a whole receded to 66%. from 69% a week ago. kept Steel’s improvement in check, and the outstanding industrial succumbed wc_h the rest of the market in the late afternoon.
Call money was m increasing supply. Renewals of standing loans were arranged at 2’2%. and the rate dropped to 2%. the lowest official quotation since March 20. While requirements in connection with the close of the government’s fiscal year on June 30 may prevent further concessions in the demand rate over the next week or so. credit authorities are looking for a figure below 2% after July 1.
Copper shares were definitely heavy. working lower under the leadership of Anaconda. Latter sold off on fears regarding the outcome of Thursday's meeting at which consideration will he given to the quarterly dividend payment. It was generally recognized that the present 57 rate would be reduced in line with the recent action of other leading copper producers. But considerable nervousness was in evidence as to whether a S3 or a $4 basis would be decided upon.	>
Weekly condition statement of reporting member banks of the Federal Reserve System again fails to bear out recent reports that the decline in stocks had been due partly to efforts by out-of-town banks to cut down their security loans. During the week ended June 18. m which period brokers’ loans in New York City fell 3211.000.000, security loans of reporting member banks scored a gain of $51,000,000. Latter now stand at SS.615.000.000, which «s 51,233.000.000 higher than a year ago.
This would hardly indicate that banks have been forcing liquidation. On the contrary, it suggests that the same thing is happening now as took place during the autumn panic on a vastly larger scale* In other words, instead of selling out stocks on the break, the public has been tranferring its marginal security transactions from brokerage accounts to the banks. In "the first stages of the collapse last fall this movement went ahead on such an extensive scale that a gain of 51.259.000,000 in security loans occurred m the single week erded October 30.	~
This item rep-and might inregaining1 con-m preparation
While the latest condition statement does not reflect any progress m liquidating security loans, it has one encouraging aspect in that “all other” loans gained 5111,000,000. resents commercial borrowings, dicate that business enterprise is fidence. and is obtaining credit for expanding activities
While the total of $8,615,000,000 is still $648.000,000 below a year ago. the fact that such a substantial gain took place last week after the persistent declines over the last several months gives some ground for the hope that a turn has come. At any rate, if further gains take place in commercial borrowings in coming we^ks it will give strong reasons for supposing that business men are making plans for increased production toward the end of the summer.
Interests feeling concern over the unliquidated state of security loans have made, a study showing that member banks of the Federal Reserve system now have 65% of their resources tied up in security investments, and in loans on stock and bond collateral. This figure compares with 56% a year ago on a similar basis of computation. Their figures also show that the percentage runs higher in New York. With deposits at this center totaling around 56.900,000.-O00, member banks have $5 600.000.000 m security investments, and loans on securities, or slightly more than 80% of deposits These people feel that this situation, m conjunction with the depressed state of business, has been largely responsible for the recent heaviness of the stock market.
“Extent of the decline in representative stocks from their 1929 highs is suggestive of how far the market already has gone in deflating last year’s extravagant price levels.” savs Frazier Jelke & Co. “At its recent low Kreuger was selling for 17*( of its 1929 high; Chrysler 18%: Columbia Graphophonc. 19*f; Montgomery Ward, <gl%: United Aircraft. 26%; International Telephone. 27% ; Radio. 28% : International Nickel, 29%; Anaconda, 31r'r: American Rolling Mill, 35% ; Kennecott. 36%; Electric Bond & Share, 37% ; General Motors, 42% ; Union Carbide. 43%; Woolworth. 49%; National Dairy Products, 52r'r; Electric Auto Lite, 50%: Consolidated Gas, 54%; United Stat^fe Steel, 58%: and New York Central, 60%.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.