Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 22, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 12
zf Daily Column of Comment
about the market’s possible ups and downs, investors are becoming increasingly active. At the same time, they are holding aside some cash with an eye to adding to favorite stock investments if the market goes any lower tn the coming months.
Good Earnings for Chicago Great Western	'
Good railroad earnings this year compared with last are such a rarity that when a road accomplishes this it attracts attention. There has been buying recently in Chicago Great Western preferred because that road is the only one in the Northwest that has shown consistent improvement in earnings for the current year. It is not unlikely that $4 a share will be earned on the preferred in 1930. The company is spending a large amount of money in roadbed and new equipment.
Shattuck a Food Favorite
Among the food stocks Frank G. Shattuck Co.’s stock is a favorite. ”Schraffts” revenues for 1930 are likely to exceed those of 1929. The company is careful in its expansion, and has been able to maintain a favorable profit margin despite the new additions that have put intc operation this year.
Warm Weather Shares Neglected
Despite the country wide heat wave, the ice and ice cream stocks are little seen on the tape. Borden has been somewhat more active at higher prices. While depressed trade may have reduced the sales of ice cream in some districts, still it has become one of the necessaries of the American public, as assuredly as ice is, All of these companies have been doing a big business throughout the country in the past ten days.
Leather Situation Being Liquidated
A quarter of a million ”big four” packer hides and fully 100.000 outside packer hides were sold into consuming channels In the past week. Prices were generally steady. This large amount of activity was considered as marking the end of the deflation in raw leather stocks. The statistical position of the hide market is becoming stronger with a broader participation in the market by tanners of all descriptions of leather. The product is now quoted at two-thirds of pre-war prices. Most producers are on a sold-out basis.
Some Bullish Buuinens Factor*
Current bullish factors include: Reduction in radio, leather, grocery, hardware, textile, automobile and gasoline inventories; increase in bank debits outside of New York; low cost of raw materials for manufacturers: low money re tea. and even shutdowns in industry, making for increased activity later on.
More	rlopmonts
In Television Soon
Extension of the Radio Corp’s licensing to include television suggests that the management expects that this new wireless development will be available for commercial purposes sooner than originally predicted. One of the high officials a few months ago suggested that K would be at least five years before television would be in the homes, but apparently it is coming nearer than that. It is likely that the new radio license will be on the same hasis as hitherto, viz. 7i--> royalty on gross sales.
Consolidated Gan a Faxorite
Some important long pull buying of Consolidated Gas around present levels has taken place. Several investment trusts have added to their holdings in the last month. The company has a record of growth which extends over a century. Where the original company supplied gas to 120.000 customers today in the same territory Consolidated Gas serves both gas and electricity to over 8.000,000.
Merchandising Compwilr* Doing Better
The dollar volume of retail sales has not declined so far in proportion to production or the decrease in commodity prices. Retail merchandisers have been able to replace inventories on favorable base?, azu-nwugin of profit has held fairly well. Many sale? by retailers have been unusually successful, even for this time of the year. However, full effect of the cuts in merchandise prices now being made will not be seen until results for the last half of the year are known.
Stock market was a quiet, sagging affair throughout the session. There was not aggreS-fuve pressure but steady liquidation was apparent in most issues. Coupled with this, traders came down bearish and helped matters alone* on that side of the market.
Some of the stock that was bought last week on strength came into the market and bids in some issues were only at severe concessions. High-priced issues like Auburn, Eastman Kodak and J. I. Case dropped away easily on few sales.
There were few firm spots in the market. Radio, National Cash Register, Can, Steel and Vanadium, which bad been marked up recently. Jest ground steadily and in some cases were off from 5 to 10 points from their highs on the latest recovery.
1 There was no change in credit conditions which still show plenty of money for immediate purposes, with the longer term outlook lor somewhat higher rates.
Motor shares were quiet and heavy. Oils were entirely neglected, and special issues were mixed with the majority of issues selling off.
, The Street is still watching commodity prices. Copper metal remained unchanged at 31 cents, with little business done. Zinc was 1 definitely stronger with price 4.30 to 4.35 cents 1 a pound, East St. Louis, for prime western.
1 Improved Sentiment Here to Stay?
i A right about face in market sentiment has I taken place, although traders are still cautious. , Will Wall Street follow trade or trade follow 'Wall Street? That is a question much dis; cussed. In the past, the Street usually has forecast the trend of business, and the majority
1 opinion has it that it will continue to do so. i despite the costly premature ••discounting” I which th? financial element indulged in earlier ; in the year.
1 American Agricultural ‘ Chemical** A**et Value
■ The 284.552 shares of American Agricultural Chemical preferred stock on which 55 rr in back : dividends is accrued are selling around $28, whereas there is over $49 a share in net current
* assets allowing for approximately $10,000,000 l funded debt remaining after recent retirements. ! Incidentally, the book value of the stock is bet! ter than $150 a share. There is a new manage' ment in control of the company’s affairs which , has been putting into effect various economics and new operating systems that are likely to in' crease the company’s income. The company i is strong financially, but owing to the bad I fertilizer business its income after fixed charges, I etc., has not been large. The fertilizer business ’ still is spotty.
, Intrrlakr Iron Doing Nicely
Interlake Iron, the old By-Product? Coke reported 26 cents a share earned for June quarter, against 27 cents a year ago Earnings for six .months were equal to 65 cents a share against 52 for 3 929. The company pays $1 dividend annually. There has been a lot of investment trust {buying of the shares around 3 8 recently. The company has expanded its business advantageously and its contracts with public utilities, notably Peoples Gas of Chicago, are proving I profitable.
i	'
' Some Plcasrint
Six Months’ Tt^’porf*
I Beside? the good six months’ report of the (th*9 Interlake Iron. American Chain reported I $3 29 a common share, against $2.63 a year ago j for six months, V. S. Pipe Foundry $1 76. 'against 59 rents, and United Biscuit 51.92. ! against $3.69. Briggs Body also made a good icport. Altogether, there have been a number ' of bright spots m the situation, and those who feared a long list of poor six months’ statements are finding a lot of comfort in the numerous exceptions.
Miniature Golf And the Modes
Those who drive on the mam highways re-I cently have noticed at frequent intervals miniature golf courses which are crowded with 1 • golfers” during part of the day and most of : the night. They arc illuminated by flood lights 'which make night playing possible. The admission charges generally are about 35 or 50 cents. In some districts where they are popular, they have seriously affected attendance at moving pictuic houses.
Jnxestmvnt Buying SIiohIng IncrrttM1
Whateve: the average operator may think
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.