Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 22, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 16
A Daily Column of Comment
panies that are strongly fortified with cash reserves and In good fmnrini condition Such reports are due to knowledge of reduced earnings for the current year.
In that Conner tjon. favorable comment is heard on the action of the managements of General Motors and .1 C. Penney in reassuring stockholders that there no question concerning the current rate being declared. Similar action of officials of other companies would be beneficial, it is maintained.
Third Quarter Earning Statement*
On the whole, many of the statements of earnings for the third quarter have been fair reading, particularly in the light of some of the unusually pessimistic predictions which had been heard while the market vzas suffering from heavy liquidation Nov*, it said that the natural tendency of corporations is to report early when earnings are good and to delay reports when they are considered unsatisfactory. That may be true of some organizations, but the charge cannot he made aga.nst the leading companies. They have regular dates on which earnings are made publ.c each quarter, regardless of what the show.ng is.
Shattuck’s Earnings Vader Last Year
Earnings of Shattuck this year are likely to be slightly below the 52 GO a share reported for 1929. Sales of the company have decreased as compared with last year, hut that is attributed more to economy practiced by customers than to any other factor. It is the popular belief that the number of customers served to date has been greater than last*year, but that the average check has been smaller.
American Radiator’* Results Thia Year
Earnings of American Radiator this year doubtless will not come up to the $2 02 a share reported in 1929, due to general business conditions. Interests in the company have taken some encouragement from the fact that the decrease in residential construction in September was only 17'r from that of the corresponding month in 1929. whereas reductions of 30'r or 40r; were reported in previous months this year. Xaturally, any increase in the build mg of residences will be beneficial to the company.
Drug Attracting Long-Pull Demand
A moderate amount of long-pull buying has been reported in Drug. Inc on occasions recently. Earnings for the current year should be at least 50'r- over the S4 a share annual dividend rate, it is estimated Like other issues. Drug has been effected m recent weeks ov forced liquidation.
Through subsidiaries, the company manufactures and distributes a widely diversified line of products which are well known. They include Bayer’s Aspirin, Ipana Toothpaste, Vick’s VapoRub. Life Savers. Sal Hepatica, Three-in-One Oil. Cascarets. Diamond Dyes. Fletcher’s Castona, etc. Merchandising operations are conducted through Liggett Drug Stores m this country and the Boots Pure Drug Co., Ltd., in England.
Vndvrwood Elliott Ficher Business Increasing
Banking interests affiliated with Vnderwood Elliott Fisher state that the latest figures on sales indicate a more satisfactory rate of operation and earnings for the company over the remainder of the year. The percentage of increase m sales of standard typewriter units recorded in September over August was three times that of last year and four times that of 1928, which ind’cated more than seasonal improvement. The demand also has increased from foreign and domestic sources for portable typewriters. resulting in full time operations at the Bridgeport plant of the company, which is devoted to their production.
American Metal Co.’s African Acquisition
American Metal was one of the few issues which showed resistance late last week when other stocks were declining sharply. It is believed in market quarters that the stock was meeting scale support from interests that attach considerable importance to the latest African acquisitions of the company. They included 800,000 English ordinary shares of Roan Antelope Copper Mines. Ltd , and 1.000,000 ordinary shares of Rhodesian Selection Trust, Ltd . for which American Metal exchanged 350.000 shades of its common stock and $1 000.000 cash The acquisitions made a valuable adt'it.on to the contpat y s alteady extensive hold’ngs in South African mines, which are looked upon as likely to be among the world s lowest cost copper producers.
The reactionary movement was resumed la the stock market yesterday. Many in the financial district were keenly disappointed over the inability of stocks to maintain a rally for more than one session. Talk was beard of another reduction in operations of the steel mills of the country during1 the past week, while information from the oil and copper industries was not considered satisfactory.
A heavy selling* movement developed in the oil group, which carried those issues down sharply. Copper shares also declined abruptly, breaking through previous resistance levels. A few of the specialties were unusually weak, and heavy selling came into 'Westinghouse on the publication of the comparatively unsatisfactory report for the third quarter. Steel common, American Can and some of the popular shares held above their lows for the year, which was an encouraging feature.
Considerable bear pressure was reported at times during the day. The lower prices uncovered stop-loss orders, permitting some of the shorts to cover part of their outstanding commitments. However, little evidence was seen of any heavy covering. The shorts are waiting for lower prices to be reached before taking stocks.
Conservatives continue to urge clients to keep out of the market. They point to the failure of the recovery to carry over as justifying their policy of remaining on the side lines. Even scale buying is not being recommended by those interests.
Commission Houses Sold on Balance
Although reports were heard of rather good odd-lot buying for cash through commission houses, the lower prices uncovered stop orders, resulting in an increased supply from those who had bought stocks last Friday. As a result, the leading firms were sellers on balance.
Professionals and floor traders helped the downward trend by pressing stocks at times. However, the sharpy lower levels attracted considerable scale short covering, and that element was credited with having bought moderately on balance.
O<ld-Lot Buying Still Increasing
A number of commission houses report that odd-lot investment buying for cash still is increasing. Stock so purchased is being taken out of Wall Street. That type of buying steadily v.ill offset liquidation, in the opinion of some market interests. In addition, support from more important interests has been evident recently. Whether their purchasing has been for a turn or for long pull has not been learned
Says Accumulating Area Renrhed
One prominent market observer expresses the view that “an accumulating area has been reached which merits serious consideration ” He adds that this should not be taken to mean an advance is coming immediately. At certain times, he says, stocks reach an area which should be a buying range for long-term accumu-lntion. Patience may be required of these who take stocks on a scale, but sooner or later the purchaser will he able to realize a good profit on carefully selected holdings.
Opportunities Bring Examined Closely
When extreme pessimism and apparent hopelessness exist, the conservative begins looking closely into buying opportunities. Recently, there have been periods when hardly a good word could be heard concerning the future of business or tlie stock market. It is at such times that tlie investor with ample funds begins picking up stocks which, he intends to hold for a long time and for substantia! profits.
Such investors do not give much attention to the nearby fluctuation*, and if stocks continue to move downward, they usually continue their scale accumulation. Thus, when the turn finally comes, they are carrying standard stocks which have been obtained at a fair average.
Gixing Preference To High-Grade Bonds
Judging from comments made in the best investment circles, preference is being given to high-grade bonds. It is pointed out that with indications that the money market will continue easy for a long time, it is probable that the trend of the best bonds will be upward. For that reason, a number of interests are advising clients to pick up bonds on reactions caused by profit-taking or liquidation forced by the action of the stock market.
Reassuring Holders Concerning Dividend*
Many unwarranted rumors have been circulated during periods of market reactions concerning the maintenance of dividends by com-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.