Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 10, 1930;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 12
Daily Column of Comment
Pronounced weakness developed on the Stock Exchange yesterday. Liquidation was resumed at the opening, and gained momentum as lower levels were established, uncovering stop-loss orders on a large scale. Short covering was rather active at times, but did little more than check the reaction temporarily. After that demand had been satisfied, new periods of declining prices developed. Ab stocks broke through their lows of last November, the pressure increased, indicating that many of the traders had put stop sales in the market just below the bottoms of the big fall decline.
Of outstanding interest was the contest which was in prepress in U. S. Steel. The action of that s,ock always has been a feature, because so many look upon it as the outstanding leader. After starting with a small fractional gain. Steel reacted sharply to a new low for the current decline. It was then that resistance was encountered at or slightly above 150. Finally the supply was sufficient to break through the 150 figure. That was a signal for heavy selling, not only in Steel, but also in the entire list.
Just about the time there was Indication of a temporary support point having been reached in the noon hour, announcement was made of the suspension of one of the well known Stock Exchange houses. That brought a new - selling wave into the market, with the stand-
•	ard issues reaching lows which exceeded those
•	recorded during the bad break last fall. Nat-t u rally, as the decline progressed, the liquida-, tion increased There were many signs of j necessitous selling throughout the session, inI dicating that the cleaning out process is progressing at a rapid pace.
Few are willing to make a prediction as to when the market will turn for a technical rally. The fact that the drop has been so prolonged and drastic finally has convinced many interests that too much emphasis was put on the short selling during September. Conservative observers arc keeping customers on the side lines. They have not issued buying recommendations, despite the materially lower levels which have been reached. Instead, most interests still urge that longs take advantage of any technical recovery to reduce their positions and strengthen their margined accounts.
Traders Bought On Balance
Professionals and floor traders, although selling stocks at various times during the day. were taking advantage of the lower levels to take m s6me of their short commitments. That element was credited with having bought on balance.
Odd-lot investment buying continues to come from the public. That demand is growing, but the volume is not sufficient to have any effect. Leading commission houses reported considerable liquidation as a result of lower prices uncovering stops. The larger firms were sellers on balance.
PoliiioK May Be irritating
Politics always has been a seasonal irritation at this time of the year, so the coming Congressional elections in this country are not likely to be an exception. Business always has felt some effects from elections, and the uncertainty prior to the casting of ballots early in Govern ber.
In addition, many in the financial district have expressed concern about the outcome of the political situations in foreig’n countries. They have aggravated the effects of poor business.
Blast Furnace Operations and the Market
One of the old trading rules that was followed for many years apparently nas gone by the boards. It was maintained that when blast furnace operations of the country reached a point below 60% of capacity, there would be a change upward m the business trend, and that stocks could be purchased for a good advance.
Blast furnace operations nave been under 60% for some time. In September, they were 38.7% of capacity, the lowest in years.
Investors Switching Strong Box Holdings
Each day. more talk is heard of selling from the strong boxes of investors. Many believe those who rely upon dividends for their income
have became nervous because of declining earnings and rumors of unfavorable action by various organizations. With little assurance regarding the future stability of their income, they naturally switch out of some stocks and into others that are looked upon as certain to maintain disbursements.
Steel Corporation's Unfilled Orders
Unfilled orders of the United States Steel Corp, as of September 30. last, will be published at noon today. The Street will be waiting for that statement with special interest. While it generally is believed that a good-sized decrease will be reported, some would not be surprised if the showing was somewhat better than many of the pessimists have been predicting. A comparatively favorable report might have a temporary effect on the stock because it is maintained that there is a substantial short interest in Steel just now.
Liquidation in Bethlehem Steel
Liquidation has been in progress in Bethlehem Steel for some time, and it seems to have increased as lower prices were reached. During reactions, many stop orders were uncovered, ; which has increased the supply. Xaturally. ’ Bethlehem’s earnings in the third quarter were 1 affected by conditions in the steel industry, so ‘ that the results may be disappointing to those , who made glowing estimates earlier in the year as to the showing to be made in 1930.
BrNt A: C«>.’s Earnings
, To Be Favorable
■	Interests that have been identified with the market in Best <£ Co. for some time state that
1 they believe sales in September were better than those for the corresponding month a year ago.
1 They estimate that earnings for the current year , will be in the neighborhood of $4.50 or $5 a i share One factor which has helped the company in past months has been the enterprise of
■	the management in expanding facilities out of 1 earnings. The company is one of the few which
has been able to iiyrrcasc its margin of profit during the comparatively trying period which has been experienced in retail business generally.
Gold Dust T"p ! To Last Year
! While Gold Dust reports earnings only annually, those who have been in a position to know conditions within the company hold the view that the results for the nine months ended September 30 were about equal to those of the corresponding period last year.
For some time, the company has been retiring funded debt and preferred stocks of subsidiaries with its cash. In addition, inventory has been increased when prices for many products were low Thus. Gold Dust is in a position to enjoy large profit margins in the future, when the products held in inventory increase m value.
Anicricun Tobarco Meeting Demand
Market students report evidence of scale buying in American Tobacco at various times m recent sessions. While the stock bus been meeting some liquidation, which seemed to be of the necessitous type, it is asserted that lower prices have attracted odd-lot accumulation on a larger scale than has existed in many other issues That probably is due to the fact that the company has been doing much better than its competitors in the current year. It has enjoyed the bulk of the increase in cigarette sales, and results for the period promise to be highly satisfactory’.
Remington-Rand
Sales Better
i Reports are heard in the financial district i that sales of Remington-Rand since the middle of August have been better than m preceding period. Interests that have been prominent in the stock in the past have expressed the hope that the improvement will be maintained for the remainder of the year. Remington is m a position to benefit from a better demand for its products, although it has felt the business recession like other office equipment organizations. Speculative scale, buying has come into the stock from time to time during general i eactions m ‘ the market.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.