Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 14, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 10
Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Continued unsettlement was created in the main body of stocks during the week-end session by further heavy selling of general character. Substantial liquidation of accounts impaired by the recent extensive declines came into the market, imparting momentum to the down-
Large offerings of Steel common were again in supply, and the principal industrial suffered another sharp break on an active turnover. Discouragement over conditions in the steel industry was increased by prospects of additional reductions in operations in the Youngstown district. Standard of New Jersey, and other leading petroleum issues were under pressure following the unexpected suspension of dividend payments by Gulf Oil Corp., one of the leading independents, controlled by the Mellon interests.
Railroad stocks were affected by disappointment over the failure of the Chicago conferences of the general chairmen of the railway unions to produce definite action regarding wage reductions. After breaking to a new record low in the Dow-Jones averages in Friday’s session, the principal carrier shares generally extended their declines. However, they were relatively better supported than industrials, due to the action of the labor representatives in proposing that the railway executives appoint a committee with full power to negotiate a settlement of the railroads* demands for a 10% wage cut.
Steel Preferred at Par
Bank shares extended their declines of the previous day, and various high-grade preferred stocks showed a lack of effective support from investment demand. V. S. Steel preferred declined sharply, selling par for the first time since 1908. Trading in bonds was featured by a break in Japanese obligations following Japan’s suspension of gold payments.
Year-lShd Influences Heightened
Wall Street is agreed on the point that the recent widespread liquidation m securities, particularly in bonds and bank stocks, has represented the type of selling that usually appears lr_ December. It has largely been a combination of offerings to register losses against 1931 income taxes, and the forced unloading of collateral against impaired security loans by banks desiring to strengthen their year-end showings.
This month, the-normal influences have been heightened by the severity of the shrinkage m security values, and by the depressed state of industry. Even in good years, operations m the steel trade and other heavy lines taper off in December. and the tendency in that direction has brought steel production recently down to around the lowest levels seen in a decade.
However, the December liquidating movement almost invariably establishes the groundwork for advancing prices into the new- year, and recent developments indicate that such a base is being approached at this time. Important buying which traditionally appears when selling is being overdone has lately been in evidence. While this support does not immediately make itself felt, its effect eventually is to stem the downward tide and stimulate a sharp recovery when urgent pressure has subsided.
Groundwork for Rally Prepared
Last December, tbe market during the first half of the month was greatly similar to the trading over the last two weeks. Industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages declined froix 245.09 on September 3, 1930, to 157.51 on December 16. By mid-December. sentiment was
profoundly discouraged, and various disturbing reports were in circulation.
However, these rumors were forgotten when the share list turned upward, and traders who had taken short positions on them found themselves confronted by substantial losses. This advance continued until February 24,	1931,
carrying the industrial compilation to 194.36, thereby erasing about 50% of the preceding decline.	—
Although feeling that further liquidation remains to be accomplished, most observers believe the present market conditions are cleaning up weakened situations, and building up the foundation for the familiar year-end advance. If constructive news should develop in the next few days, such as a favorable turn in the railway wage negotiations, it is thought that the start of a sharp recovery would be materially hastened.
Chesapeake & Ohio *
Favorable developments in the railroad field should bring rallies in such issues as New York Central, Chesapeake & Ohio, Atchison, Baltimore & Ohio and Union Pacific. In some quarters, Chesapeake & Ohio is regarded as the logical leader of a rally in the rails. For tbe 10 months ended October, the road reported pet income equal, after preferred dividends, to $3.16 a share on tbe common, and for the year, net should exceed $3.50 a share, compared with dividend requirements of $2.50 a share annually.
Nearly 80% of the road’s traffic consists of coal, and more than 85',? of this coal movement is originated on the C. & O.’s lines. Coal traffic of the road has held up well this year, although unseasonably warm weather in November, and most of this month, reduced coal movement.
Investment Accumulation Advised
“The tempo of business has recorded no change from that of the past few weeks, the report of U. S. Steel Corp, for November showing a drop of 185,500 tons in unfilled orders,” says Clark Williams & Co. •’There is an increasing belief, however, that activity in a number of lines is at bottom, and urgent demand is building up a pressure which must soon break down under resistance.
“A basis for such an upturn in business activity, aside from necessitous demand, is provided by the readjustments which have been made during the past year by practically all industries in effecting economies of operation and. otherwise putting their houses in order so as to show a greater margin of profit on a smaller volume of business. Further encouragement as to the outlook is also to be had from the renewed strength m cotton and wheat prices and the statement by Secretary Mellon in connection with the Treasury’s estimate of income in which is voiced the expectation of a definite improvement in industry and business during 1932.
’’Pending some indication of such an improvement. however, or the development of some piece of constructive news, we are of the opinion that the securities markets will continue unsettled and would recommend that most conservative positions be maintained in trading accounts, although we think reactionary movements should be taken advantage of by those accumulating stocks for investment purposes to purchase sound representative rail, industrial and utility issues, as there is no doubt that the shares of many of these companies which enjoy a strong financial position have receded to levels considerably below actual equity values.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.