Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 18, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Bichard E. Edmondson
Continuing under the Influence of the urgent quest for liquidity, stocks suffered further severe	yesterday. After the additional ex-
tensive recessions of the last few days, the necessities of the sellers became more pressing, and the liquidating movement increased in volume until it attained apparently climactic proportions.
With bonds of virtually every description giving ground sharply on a heavy turnover, declining tendencies in the main body of stock steadily picked up momentum as the session progressed. About the only share group to put forth a show of resistance was the copper division. Issues of this class received support from news that Phelps Dodge had decided not to withdraw from the association of copper exporters.
This action foreshadowed early agreement on the proposed curtailment of world copper production. It created a firmer tone in the domestic copper market, where the price advanced to 7 cents, from the recent low of 6% cents, with many producers holding out for higher levels.
U. S. Steel common continued to lead the downward movement in the principal industrials. Breaking to new low ground for the 1929-31 major decline, Steel dipped well below the minimum low price of 38 fixed for the stock after trading had been resumed on the Stock Exchange following the suspension of business during the early stages of the war. Since then, however, the Steel Corp, has paid a 40% common stock dividend distributed June 1, 1927.
Grain Prices Break
American Telephone also broke through previous resistance levels for the year, sinking to its lowest levels since 1922. New lows for the major decline likewise were reached by Allied Chemical. American Can. Consolidated Gas. duPont, Texas Corp., Standard of New Jersey and General Electric.
Baltimore & Ohio was a weak spot in the railroad group. Following the suspension of common dividends, the stock broke to a new record low.
Penetration of recent support points In numerous sections of the list was followed by gradual expansion in the volume of dealings. Pressure steadily increased, attaining its greatest intensity during the early afternoon in the wake of good-sized breaks in wheat and corn prices. During the last hour, selling lightened somewhat, enabling the list to show a slightly steadier tone.
Standard of New Jersey
IU»cent weakening of the price structure for petroleum products has accentuated the pressure on lending oil shares that has been primarily due to selling to establish losses against 1931 income taxes. Standard of New Jersey has been in particular supply, declining to the lowest levels on record for the present shares Financial interests identified with Standard of New Jersey’s management have been adding to .their holdings of the stock on recent recessions. One group is known to have purchased more than 25,000 shares over the last sex -oral sessions.
Auburn’s Technical Situation
Auburn continued to reflect the large short interest existing in the stock, holding above Wednesday's closing levels during the further declines in Steel, and other leading industrials Stock Exchange figures showed that the short interest in Auburn, as of November 30, totaled 51,301 shares.
Tins was 25.7% of the company’s 199.139 outstanding shares. However, a better measure of the compressed technical situation in Auburn is afforded by deduction of the 109,000 shares owned by Cord Corp, which has controlling interest in Auburn. Making allowance for the Cord holdings. Auburn’s short interest climbs to 56.9% of the remaining 90,139 shares.
Pennsylvania Carloadings
Although loaded cars handled by the Pennsylvania Railroad System for the week ended December 12 showed a decrease both from the preceding week and a year ago, the movement indicated a slight relative improvement in both comparisons. The December • 12 loadings amounting to 94,247 cars compared with 114.790 cars in corresponding week of 1930, decrease 20,543 cars or 17.9%, while the preceding week showed a decrease of 21,562 cars or 18.2% as compared with similar week of 1930. The
December 12 loadings also showed a decrease of 2,506 cars or 2.6% from the preceding week, while the corresponding week in 1930 showed a decrease of 3,525 cars or 2.9% from preceding week. December is a month of receding traffic and no improvement in business is looked for in railroad circles until after the turn of the year, at least.
Important Buying in Rail* Substantial scale buying h**	place
recently in second grade railway bonds for the account of some of Wall Street’s most influential banking interests. These people feel that railroad prospects are far brighter than indicated by the extremely depressed levels currently prevailing in securities of this class. They express the belief that developments In the near future will greatly strengthen the financial position of weaker roads, and result in extensive appreciation in their funded obligations.
In view of thj* confidence regarding a nearby turn for the better in the railroad situation, considerable accumulation has also been In progress In representative carrier stocks. In quarters that have been closely in touch with developments In Qie railway wagr negotiations, predictions are made that eastern and western railway executives will reach an agreement on the wage question at today’s Joint conference cnee in New York. Union brotherhoods are expected to give full power to a committee to negotiate to a conclusion with the railway executives on the wage problem.
If the executives agree to devote some of the savings ofTectcd from wage reduction to greater employment, this would be done only after Interest requirements had been met on the bonds of the Individual roads. Hence, the cut in operating expenses from lower wages would have an important effect in bolstering railway credit. Moreover, the credit pool from the proceeds of emergency rate increases will begin operations next month, assuring assistance to lines with pressing obligations.
British Circulation Increases
Weekly Bank of England condition statement for the period ended December 17 showed , the expected seasonal increase in circulation. Currency rose to £363,534,000, an increase of about £5,000,000 during the week. Reserves against deposit liabilities naturally fell an approximately similar amount, to £32,893.000, bringing the reserve ratio to 26.6% from 30.2% In the previous week. Last year circulation rose almost £8.000,000 in the corresponding week, while reserves dropped almost £9.000,000, the reserve ratio standing at 37.5'4 , compared with 43% in the previous week. A further advance in note circulation is expected to appear in the next statement.	f
Government securities held by the bank rose about £1 000,000 and other securities about i £3.000.000, also a normal yenr-end movement. ' Other items in the bank’s statement were nearly unchanged.
; The Bank of France statement showed that | gold holdings on December 11, the date of the current figures, reached a new high record at fr 67.993,000.000. although this was an increase of on’v fr. 40.000.000 during the week Circulation declined slightly, while private deposits ad-
■ vanced to a new high tota1 at fr. 23 699.000.000. The ratio of gold against sight liabilities consequently fell slightly, dropping to G3 17<_, from the preceding week's record high of Gt 26rr .
' Most noteworthy in the statement was the decline m sight balances abroad and an ini crease m bills bought abroad The former declined about fr. 400.000.000. and the latter rose about fr 700,000.000. This movement marked a distinct reversal of the trend apparent for many weeks of a switch out of bills into cosh.
:	National Cash Register
i Officials of National Cash Register are ex-1 peeled to return from a six weeks’ European trip December 22 Following their arrival a directors’ meeting will be held m New York at which time payment on the Class A stock will be considered.
j A year ago directors declared the regular quarterly dividend of 75 cents on the Class A and SI 50 on Class B for the year 1930. The Class B is not entitled to dividends unless the A stock receives S3 a year. In as much as the
I Class A is $1.87 in arrears this year, no dividend can be paid on the B until the A stock is paid up.	*
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.