Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 30, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8	- -  ------------------------------------
Abreast of the Market
Wall Street expressed disappointment over the United States Steel dividend action and the unfavorable second quarter earnings’ statement in a distinctly reactionary stock market. The main body of stocks broke sharply at the opening and further recessions developed as trading progressed, with particular weakness in steel issues. United States Steel during the day receded to within	points of its June 2 low*
price of S3!«.
Bethlehem Steel was subjected to special pressure and the common stock sold down to 35 thus establishing a low record for the present shares which represent a split-up of former stock in 1917. Weakness in this issue was directly attributable to the prospects of a reduction in common dividends when directors meet today.
Steel trade news, on the other hand, was slightly reassuring, the ingot output in the week ended Monday showing an increase of about 2%. Practically the entire gain was due to greater activity by smaller independents since CT. S. Steel Corp, recorded only a small fractional gain.	,
The pressure on steel issues was communicated to other market leaders and losses ranging from fractions to well above 5 points resulted. The can shares, American and Continental, besides declining in sympathy with the trend of the general market, were affected by a curtailment in tinplate operations. American sold down 5^-» points and a sizeable reaction took place in Continental.
Prices of many leading stocks, at their low levels of the day, came within a narrow margin of the June 2 lows of this year. Rail shares, utilities and specialties suffered in the general downward movement. In the final hour, rallying tendencies were apparent, but volume dropped substantially and closing prices were around the day’s low levels.
Foreign markets took their cue from the U. S. Steel dividend action and securities* prices generally were unsettled.
Tin Plate Curtailment Affects Can Shares
Can stocks were subjected to pressure on the announcement that tin plate operations were being curtailed sharply. The can companies, apparently, passed the peak of their season early this year and earnings probably will not shape up as well as seemed likely a short while ago. In addition to curtailed acreage of crops for canning this^ year, the hot weather has been a factor in further reducing the yield, and the pack of important vegetables this year is likely to fall below estimates.
Among specialties, Worthington Pump was fairly active at lower levels, both in sympathy with the market generally and in response to the reduced earnings this year. Despite the smaller income in the first six months, however, as compared with the corresponding period in 1930—5209,856 against 51.052,732—the company’s finances continued in an extremely strong liquid position. Current assets totaled $15,468,597, equal to better than $17 for each $1 of current liabilities. Cash holdings amounted to $7,096,763 and. alone, were $6,191,376 in excess of total current liabilities. Surplus, reflecting the payment of preferred dividends when not earned in the six months, was sl’ght’y lower as of June 30, last, at $5,145,422.
Steel Trade News Slightly Encouraging
Weekly reviews of the steel trade offered little definite encouragement, despite a reported rise in operations amounting to 2%. This upturn was considered a minor rebound from the low point of mid-July. Structural steel orders continued to hold up pretty well, but offsetting this was a further decline in tin plate operations to around 55% from 60%. Tm plate operations had been one of the bright spots in the industry for several months, but the can makers have begun to curtail specifications materially and still lower operations are in prospect for the next few weeks.	*
The price structure for steel products has been holding steadier, but this is due to the
absence of demand rather than to any other important cause. The price basis cannot be tested adequately until the fall when, it is hoped, steel demand will show some seasonal improvement. Scrap prices were somewhat firmer, although here again the present levels are not being tested materially.
Some traders opine that the sharp cut in U. S. Steel's dividend will put the market back for 10 days to two weeks, and in the case of steel shares, generally, the June 2 lows will be put through a testing period. The former low on Steel was 83 V*- Any trend In U. S. Steel, naturally, is bound to affect the market position of other stocks, although, in some cases, probably to a minor degree only. Commenting on Steel's dividend action, Faine, Webber & Co. state that "the disappointment coming from the key industrial corporation and its implications with respect to wages, may represent the final element of deflation in a liquidating movement that is now of nearly two years' duration.’’
Foreign News Suggests Walting Policy
News from abroad suggested a waiting policy. The opening of the German banks, with the removal of restrictions on internal payments, scheduled for Wednesday, was postponed until next week because of fears that heavy month-end withdrawals might cause a new run on the big banks. Negotiations for a 5100.000,000 credit to the Bank of England from the’fcank of France have been suspended and may continue in a status quo until Governor Moret of the Bank of France and Governor Norman of the Bank of England meet at Basle on Sunday, previous to the commencement of the important meeting of Bank for International Settlements* directors.
Negotiations for & short term loan to Hungary of £7,000.000, which were begun before the Hoover debt program was announced, are proceeding, but London banking houses find themselves unable to participate owing to the large amounts of credits which are locked up in Germany.	F
The weakn/w in the stock market was communicated to commodity marts and declining tendencies -were apparent In cotton, cocoa, sugar and coffee. Raw sugar prices were off 4 to 5 points, coffee 9 to 13 points and cotton 15 to IS points.
Setting Crude Oil Prices
It is the belief m the oil industry that little is to be accomplished by such extreme action as the Governor of Oklahoma resorts to in commanding a $1 price for crude oil by Saturday under dire penalty of a complete shutdown of wells. Whether the Governor has such power under the law is a question, and in any* case, it would be contested xn the courts by those companies which find a shutdown impracticable.
Much more is to be accomplished by the voluntary action which already has been taken by a large number of producers in closing doun their wells. This movement has been effective in cutting the Oklahoma City field’s production in half, with probably a further reduction for the present week. The creation of a condition of artificial scarcity of crude m the midcontinent would lead to higher prices for the oil beyond the present top quotation of 50 cents, set by Sinclair, provided there is no further increase in the East Texas district’s output, which is now more than 20% of the nation’s total output.
As far as the utilities are concerned the electric output figures for the week ended July 25 were not much of a stimulant. They continued in the range started five weeks ago. indicating that the use of energy’ was about scraping bottom. If that be true the figures for the next eight weeks should begin to show increases compared with 1930. It was during the Jast five months of the year that the greatest curtailment of electricity by industry occurred. If the coming weeks show signs of improvement over last year, it may be taken as an indication that the smaller industrial customers are coming back on the lines That situation h?.s always been a forerunner of increased demand by manufacturers.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.