Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 19, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8	.
Abreast of the Market
By Jtichard. E. Edmondson
Declining tendencies in the principal stocks picked up substantial momentum yesterday in the wake of a break in sterling' and general weakness in the London market. Latter factors reflected nervousness over the prospect that England would have to resort to a general election to determine a national program, including a general tariff.
Uneasiness over* this situation was translated into urgent selling of American shares. Large offerings from abroad accumulated at the opening, and the improvement shown by pivotal shares in Thursday’s late trading was quickly wiped out.
Prices started in at good-sized recessions from the previous close, and the selling movement gained increasing breadth as the moiling progressed. Special pressure converged on Steel common, and the stock broke to a further new low since 1921 around noon. New lows for the bear market also were reached by American Can, Allied Chemical, General Electric. Consolidated Gas, American Telephone, Atchison, and Union Pacific.
With the stocks to which the market looks for leadership displaying acute weakness, speculative sentiment was extremely depressed Support in the leading stocks was largely on a scale down, * while bearish operations were conducted with aggressive confidence, so that the whole market was under severe pressure. Stop-loss orders were caught in large numbers when recent resistance levels were penetrated, and selling of this character imparted impetus to the downward movement.
German Bonds Break
Disturbed sentiment over conditions abroad also found reflection in pronounced heaviness in the bond market. Efforts were made to steady British issues following the decline in sterling. However, the entire foreign list gave ground substantially under the disconcerting influence of a wide-open break in German 7% bonds, issued under the Dawes plan.
Resistance displayed by grain prices recently to persistent heaviness in the stock market was again strikingly in evidence. In face of the severe declines in the principal shares, corn closed higher, and wheat showed unimportant losses on the day.
Atchison’s Dividend Prospects
Weakness m Atchison common calls attention to likelihood of adjustment in present $10 dividend at meeting October 6. Road is in good financial position but its directorate has long been recognized as being conservative. If tne current dividend is maintained for the last quarter, there is the possibility that 1931 will be the first year since 1901, when present enrooration began paying common dividends, that management may have to decide whether tlie future ol the property warrants paying out more in dividends in any year than earned. It will be recalled that for a number of years prior to 1927, when Atchison ■was earning common dividends by more than double, considerable agitation that was afoot suggesting a more liberal attitude toward stockholders met with no results. Many people refer to the huge accrued surplus piled up by the road but this money has gone into improvements.
Utilities Power & Light
Recent persistent decline in Utilities Power & Light Class A stock has given rise to questions as to the continuation of the S2 dividend. As a matter of fact, the stock went ex the regular dividend but a few days back and it is payable October 1. Report to be issued by the company within the next week for the 12 r.ionths
ended June 30 will show the Class A dividend covered from regular revenue by a margin of nearly 100%. Tbe next declaration date is not until the middle of November at which time it is understood to be the present intention of the management to continue the regular rate.
Circulation Decreases
One of the factors that has increased bearish sentiment the past several weeks has been the persistent and dramatic increase of currency hoarding. This past week gave the first intimation that perhaps tbe worst of this hoarding had been seen, at least for tbe time being. Cir motion decreased $5,000,000 in the week of September 16, which was about in line with declined in corresponding weeks of recent years and the first decline since July 29.
This decline docs not indicate that money has started returning to banks from circulation, but only that there has been at least a temporary cessation of withdrawals induced by bank failures or fear of bank failures. Best estimates are that something like $1,000,000,000 more currency is currently outstanding than is warranted by the volume of business, wages and level of prices, and that probably around $750,000,000 of this sum is in hoarding. If increased hoarding should stop, it would be a mofet encouraging sign that general lack of confidence was not spreading into hysteria.
Other banking figures for the past week are, for the most part, noncommittal because of the influence of mid-month government financing, etc. However, tbe action of brokers’ loans and non-brokers’ securities loans was of interest. In recent weeks security loans of New York banks extended to non-brokers have shown a tendency to expand, with this past week showing an unusually large gain of $34,000,000. Meanwhile brokers’ loans have been declining, especially during the past two weeks, when contraction has totaled $95,000,-OOO. This contrary move of brokers’ and nonbrokers’ loans m a sharply declining market has, in the past, generally indicated that buying had been of better quality than selling, and such expansion of non-brokers’ loans has usually forecast a rally of substantial proportions.
At present, the loan figures are encouraging, but should be interpreted with reservation. This for the reason that many banks are demanding security collateral from borrowers on what arc reallv straight commercial loans. In other words, it is quite possible that a part of recent expansion m non-brokers’ security loans has been due to the normal autumn increase in business loans, which ordinarily would be classified as "all other” loans.
British Situation Discussed
‘‘Selling of such worldwide investment stocks as Atchison and Union Pacific in the past two days is attributed to London,” says J. H. Oliphant & Co. "Foreign selling has undoubtedly had an important influence in our recent lowering prices. The minds of British investors are confused by their own specific troubles as well as by the American corporate situation. Advices indicate as among the disturbing thoughts in London the -following: The government, to bulwark the historic pound sterling, might borrow private holdings of foreign securities for collateral purposes, the pound sterling might have to be deflated, or some adoption of silver as well as gold as a money base might be resorted to by countries now light of gold. Such considerations no matter how near or remote in the possibility of their eventuality are enough in these* days to exaggerate the desirability of cash*'in American funds.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.