Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 9, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Sy Richard E. Edmondson
Numerous plans advanced in I-abor Day addresses for unemployment relief emphasized the grave concern felt over this situation, and stocks were again, subjected to pressure when Wall Street returned from its three-day holiday. Discouragement regarding the industrial outlook was increased by a drop in steel operations in thg Youngstown district to 28% from 35% last week.
Steel common was in large supply, and the stock penetrated its 1922 low, reaching its lowest price since 1921. General Motors also was heavily sold on its total August sales, which amounted to 70,078 units, against 87,449 the preceding month, and 85.610 in August. 1930.
Renewed attention was called to the depressed earnings conditions in the railway industry by the reduction In New Haven’s quarterly payment to 51 a share, against $1.50 previously paid. Further heavy selling came into the whole carrier group. New Haven reached its lowest price since 1927, while New York Central touched the lowest levels on record for the existing shares.
Atchison and Union Pacific penetrated previous resistance levels for the present major decline, reaching new lows for the bear market. Lehigh Valley, which suspended common dividends last week for the first time since 1903, had a further substantial decline, and rail shares generally were available at the lowest average levels since the first half of 1898.
Youngstown Sheet & Tube was a weak spot in the industrial category, suffering a sharp decline on the suspension of common 'dividend payments. During the morning, the selling movement gradually picked up volume. Stoploss orders were caught in large numbe’s. and the tape lost ground until it was running 2 minutes behind actual transactions
Selling lightened in volume during the middle of the day. and ticker facilities experienced no difficulty in keeping abreast of the market. However, no rallying tendencies developed, and further disturbance was created in the afternoon by pronounced heaviness in the leading rails.
Rail Bonds Under Pressure
Unsettlemcnt in the main body of stocks was intensified by continued pressure .in the bond market. Railway bonds were in particular supply, and new lows on the movement were reached by many securities ol this class. Railway bonds were affected by persistent liquidation of institutional character, which reflected nervousness over the prospect that Jrast»c readjustment would have to be made . 1 ’he h«=t of railroad bonds legal for savings bank investments.
Uncertainties regarding the dividend payments of various railroad stocks have been increased by the problem of safeguarding the investment status of railroad company bonds. Railway managements have been exerting every effort to curtail maintenance expenditures, and reduce operating expenses. But there a limit to which such steps can be carried Hence many roads currently dipping into surplus to pay dividends will be forced to consider the advisability of cutting down distributions to shareholders in order to strengthen the position of their bonds.
Electric Storage Battery
Directors of Electric Storage Battery arc schdeuled to meet Thursday afternoon at which time consideration will be given to the question of maintaining the present S5 dividend rate There has been some seasonal pick-up 1:1 the company's business since the last quarter, when the management declared the regular quarterly payment of $1.25 a share, dipping into surph.s account for part of the payment.
Electric Storage Battery is strong in working capital and surplus, and could continue the
present dividend rate, if tHe directors should so decide in the hope that business will show further improvement.
Reading Company
Reading Company directors are due to act on the quarterly dividend on the common stock on Thursday, the 24th of this month.
The company follows the practice of charging dividend out of the previous year's earnings in 1930 dividends were fully earned with a small surplus. Accumulated surplus at the close of 1930 was $7,587.03% with then current assets $23,134,302 and current liabilities $13,790.410.
The last five	of year are the heaviest
traffic months for the Reading because of the coal movement so that results for the full year will probably be somewhat better than the seven months earnings might indicative.
Partly accountable for the small net earnings reported in the first seven months this year is the fact that the road has been charging against monthly statements part of the expenditures for improvements, such as track elevation m Germantoum and Chestnut Hill preliminary to electrification of that line. Maintenance outlays also have b?en continued on a liberal scale.
Net operating income for the month of July was $136,335 against $574,500 in the same month a year ago. Seven months net operating income amounted to $2,896,411 against $6,345,008, a decline of $3,448,597 or 54.3%. Gross revenues this year are off 17.1%.
Rail Maintenance Needs Less.
Many compilations are made as to the relationship between the reduction in railroad expenditures for maintenance and its equivalent per share of stock. While it is admitted by managements that deferred maintenance is accruing, to take the entire change in outlay and apply it to stock is far-fetched. It must be realized that considerable charges to way maintenance are entailed m most capital improvement w’ork and 1930 expenditures were the highest m years, due to effort to help business revival.
Also, the carriers have plenty idle equipment good for use so there is no need for laying out the money now. Lighter traffic volume is producing less equipment maintenance needs. It is a fallacy to take total maintenance outlay and figure that such roads as Union Pacific. Atchison, Norfolk & Western and C. & O. are being undermaintained because of reduced expenditures.
Pipe Lino Projects Largo
Pipe line projects under consideration will extend the use of natural gas to many important industrial centers within the next few years, according to Dominick & Dominick. It seems probable that in the coming decade the previous rate of growth will not only be maintained, but will be substantially increased.
Major lines recently completed connect the gas reserves of Texas and Louisiana with such industrial cities as St. Louis. Birmingham. Atlanta, Denver and Indianapolis, as well as the 1.000-milc pipe line between Chicago and the Texas fields Stimulated by new markets, consumption of natural gas has nearly tripled during the past 10 years, to a present volume of 1.940.000,000 000 cubic feet, while the number of individual customers has doubled.
Use of natural gas to generate electricity has increased particularly rapidly, the 120.000,000,000 cubic feet so used in 1930 representing a 56c; gam over 3 926. New household appliances, such as gas refngerators. heaters and incinerators have widened the market among domestic consumers; while industrial buyers, accounting for 81% of total pas distributed, have found natural gas generally more economical than other types of fuel.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.