Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 24, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8	--------------------------
Abreast of the Market
By Richard. E. Edmondson
News that many employes of the Gulf, Mobile A Northern Railroad bad agreed to accept a 10% wage reduction stimulated brisk advances in railroad stocks yesterday. Lower wage scale will continue in effect as long as the road rail* to cover its fixed charges.
This constructive step to aid the position ol a road experiencing poor earnings had a bullish influence on the general earner group. Shares of this class rose to new highs on the current recovery after selling off in the late morning from generally better levels reached in the early dealings.
Initial strength in pivotal carrier issues represented their response to indications that the railroads were ready to accept a modified version of the Interstate Commerce Commission’s plan to help the weaker roads. Willingness tc conform to the commission’s program	seen
in the proposed conferences on the question that railroads assisted by the pool should regard such advances as a loan, to be repaid the contributing roads on the restoration of bettex times.
This attitude was taken to mean that the plan would be adopted in principle, and the earner shares developed a better tone. As weakness in the rails hod disturbed the general market the two previous sessions, their improved action strengthened active stocks throughout the list.
Steel Leaders Optimistic
However, the early gains were not sustained, and the market drifted lower in sluggish fashion as the morning progressed. But advancing tendencies reasserted themselves on the appearance of the Gulf-Mobile advices during the middle of the session. Stocks generally showed a receptive attitude toward good news, and trading picked up activity as prices worked higher.
In addition to the improved character of the railroad developments, sentiment was helped by expressions from the foremost leaders in the steel industry, gathered in New York for their semi-annual meeting. Opinions voiced by these men indicated that the steel trade was far from discouraged over prospects for the coming year.
While there were few predictions of an early revival in demand on an important scale, many were of the opinion that 1932 would witness restoration of satisfactory conditions. Some executives reported they already could discern signs of a pick-up in inquiries from the smaller consumers, and hailed this as a good omen for the future, since it was this type of inquiry which set in ^notion a more substantial recovery following other depression years.
Upward tendencies m the principal stocks were given additional momentum m the late afternoon by remarkable strength m wheat prices. With wheat soaring to the best levels of the season, stocks reached the day’s best levels in the late afternoon.
Kall Sentiment Better
Expressing it in football parlance, a noted authority on transportation affairs said the Interstate Commerce Commission had carried the ball to the railroad’s three-yard line in handing down its decision on the application for higher freight rates. But his opinion was that the roads had made a recovery to at least the 25-yard line in instructing the advisory committee of the Railway Executive Association to confer with the commission on the proposal that all railroads assisted by the pool should repay tjie advances received before distributing any dividends.
In showing a willingness to cooperate with the commission in seeking to solve the problems of weaker roads, it was felt that the railway executives were greatly strengthening their bargaining position. If the roads arc ready to work with the commission, it is assumed that the latter body, m turn, will exert every* effort to better the fundamental status of the trans, portation industry.
Many authorities contend that wage reductions are the most urgent measures needed to place the transportation business on a sound basis. It is estimated that a 10% cut in wages would mean a saving equivalent to substantial per share balances on railroad stocks, running up. in some instances, to as much as $6 a share.
In view of this situation, it is argued that the roads would benefit more from reasonable wage adjustments than they would have from a flat 15% rate advance, particularly since the latter would have meant an obstacle to business revival.
, Gulf-Mobile Action Hailed
Owing to the prospect that the wage question will loom large in the forthcoming negotiations with the Interstate Commerce Commission. considerable significance was attached to news that a large number of employes of Gulf. Mobile & Northern had agreed to accept a 10$r wage reduction. This step presented such a logical method to cope with the existing emergency on various lines that hopes were entertained that the movement would appeal to the railway brotherhoods. While the latter groups have steadfastly opposed any wage reductions, the * drift of economic events shows the common. sense aspect of a more conciliatory attitude. Railway labor now has a chance to make its contribution toward general business recoverv, and the belief is growing that the brotherhoods will see the advisability of putting themselves before the public in a favorable light.
'	Circulation Gain Smaller
Interest in the weekly bank statements naturally centered on the currency circulation figures, which measure, in a degree, the state of public confidence in the banking situation. Not even the most hopeful expected an immediate turn of the trend. Considerable encouragement can therefore be derived from the fact that the rate of increase has slowed down very mate' rially. Circulation increases have been as follows in recent weeks: September 23. $77,000,, 000: September 30. SS2.000.000; October 7. $185.: 000.000; October 14. $42,000,000 and October 21, ' $31,000,000.
It would seem that the bulk of the gold cx. port movement had come to an end. Foreign banks now have only’ S160.910.000 on deposit with the Federal Reserve, as against $231,387,000 week ago. Reserve Bank holdings of ac, ccptances for foreign account, after reaching a low point of $40,571,000 a week ago. have actually increased to $68,335,000. due largely to re-i entry of Bank of France into the American , bill market. Thus evidence is that a large part of the foreign quick funds on deposit here have ’ already been withdrawn and that a return flow I is now setting in as an offset to possible further withdrawals.
! There was a further increase in rediscounting i last week, amounting to $70,000,000. Bulk of this was apparently used by member banks to build , up their reserve deposits, which increased $53.000,000. It is probable that many banks re-
, discounted heavily before the last’ advance in the rediscount rate m order to take advantage ' of the low rate. Evidence is that banks bor-1 rowed more than necessary, because during 1 the past week federal funds ( excess reserve balances ) have been offered at low rates of 34 ' r 7-_- %. with no demand. The Reserve banks, meanwhile, continued their liberal policv in the open market, buying $39,000,000 additional acceptances and more than offsetting the $31,000,000 circulation increase.	’
. There was a sharp drop in total loans and investments of the New York City banks, due chiefly to liquidation of security loans. How-
1 ever, deposits showed little change, with demand deposits actually $45,000,000 above the previous week.
Alcohol Stocks Active
Alcohol stocks displayed special strength. , with U. S. Industrial and_American Commercial , active at the best levels of the current movement. Fool operations in these two issues were based on the fact that the industry is now entering the period of the year when prices arc arranged for the next season. While all of the alcohol companies will report losses for 1931. prospects for next year arc favorable, -with their raw material, molasses, selling around 4 cents a gallon. In 1931, the industry suffered from a carry-over of high priced molasses and a drastic break in alcohol prices. Next year, even on a lower volume of business, outlook for fair sized profits is good.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.