Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 10, 1931; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 2
L4 T)aily Column of Comment
Industrial averages established a new high for the year yesterday. That was a signal for heavy short covering and considerable new buying, which carried.many stocks forward for larger gains than have been, witnessed in some time. The volume of dealings also increased substantially, and at times the ticker was running several minutes behind the trading on the floor of the Exchange. '
Chief interest was shown in the realization that instead of price reductions on leading steel products, the next change would be upward. Something may be done along that line early in March, when it will be necessary, to consider quotations for second quarter delivery.
Speculative specialties which had been favorites were strong, but most importance was attached to the ability of some of the popular pivotal stocks to establish new highs for the recovery movement. Those stocks passed through the points where heavy resistance had been cncoiSntered in the past, which was considered a more encouraging development by the bulls.	'
The higher prices brought about considerable profit taking in the early afternoon, but that supply was absorbed easily. After the selling dwindled, the leaders aga.n moved upward. A number of stocks "reached their highs for the day in the last half hour. The final tone was strong.
Because resistance JevelR had been pierced, a better feeling prevailed in the Street. Conservative observers favor buying standard stocks on reactions, which may come because of technical conditions.
Commission Houses Sold on Balance	..
Commission houses had new buying orders which had accumulated over the week end. but the later upturns attracted profit taking by outsiders. Leading firms sold on balance. Professionals and floor traders tested the market during the forenoon, but their offerings were well absorbed, and short covering became heavy in the afternoon. That element bought on balance.
Action of Market Worries Shorts
Action of the market has worried some of the shorts. Their efforts to force liquidation have been unsuccessful, and many of them have been taking in a part of their commitments. While they are not looking for any substantial advance, the resistance which has been encountered on the reactions has been impressive and encouraged their covering operations.
The short interest still is stubborn and substantial. It Includes many of the professionals who made huge profits through attacking the market during the past year. They were aided at that time by the necessitous liquidation which permitted them to cover their obligations at substantial profits. Naturally, those professionals are cbnfldent that their judgment is I correct. Should they be forced to cover, the j market could stage a spectacular advance.
I
, Steel Price Advance Would Be Important
An advance in steel prices within the next month or six weeks would be a decidedly important development, not only, for the stock market but for the steel business as well. At the moment, it apparently la the intention of the leading steel interests to take such a step.
While Steel common and others in that group were being sold last week, reports were heard that price cutting was in progress, and that a reduction in quotations would be made to attract consumers into the market. The theory was that the users were waiting for more favorable levels.
Those rumors were circulated to affect Steel common, and through it the entire market. The leading steel companies are. holding their prices firmly, and some of them report that a moderate increase took place in new buying during the final ten days of last month.
Possibly a decision wdll be reached to advance bars, shapes and plates again for second quarter delivery. However,'- upturns in some of the finished products would be just as important now. because they would influence the earnings of many of the smaller steel units. Such increases are anticipated in certain quarters.
Important Buying In Progress
Important buying is said to have been in progress on reactions in the past. The demand has not been attracting outside attention, because it has been accomplished quietly when selling has developed. Probably part of the resistance encountered when the market was
selling off was due to that scale accumulation. Whether stocks bought will be held, or disposed of during good rallies, remains to be seen. Considerable depends upon business developments in the coming weeks, according to. responsible market circles.
American Machine Depreeelou Proof
American Machine & Foundry is one of the stocks which is included in most of the lists of depression proof issues compiled in the Street. The contention is that th$ steady increase in cigarette production and the definite trend toward the usq of automatic machinery in the cigar industry', are factors which should be of vast benefit to the company in the future.
Freeport Texas Well Bought	.
Market interests report good buying has come into Freeport Texas from time to time since it was announced that the company had acquired the sulphur rights to the Vinton Dome, about twelve miles southwest of the original property of Union Sulphur. It is said some geologists regard Vinton Dome as one of the most promising areas in which a large deposit of sulphur may be developed.
American Telephone and* Busineaa Improvement
If business is to show- gradual improvement this year, as so many interests have predicted, American Telephone & Telegraph should benefit. The business of the company depends to a great extent on general conditions. Naturally, with so much unemployment, economies in various directions have reduced the use of the telephone. As one of the premier investments of the country. Telephone has been, purchased by small investors in odd lots. They have taken the stock out of the Street and reduced the floating supply.
Hupp's Advance Believed Justified
Several authorities in the motor industry have expressed the opinion that the recent advance in Hupp was justified because of the financial position of the company. The stock was affected by forced liquidation last year, and for a long time it was near its low.
At the end. of September, last year, net working capital was in excess of 515,000,000, a-nri cash and securities amounted to more than 511,000,000. Only 1.512.092 shares are outstanding, bo that the recent price was lower than warranted on. the working capital and cash assets.
National Dairy’s 1930 Earning*
When the report of National Dairy Products is issued for 1930, it is likely to show slightly more than the 54.04 a share reported for 1929. For the year, sales declined about	as com-
pared with those for the same divisions of the business in 1929. Profits and sales of the company as now organized, however, were larger.
Procter A Gamble's
Good Record
Procter 5= Gamble has made a good record In the final half of 1930, when business conditions admittedly were unfavorable, the company was able to show* record earnings of $12,194,732, after all charges and taxes. That compared with $11,639,819 in the corresponding period of 1929. Some investment buying of the long pull variety has come into the stock.
Diamond Match
A Favorite
Diamond Match has become one of the favorites in recent sessions. The stock has moved ahead in response to buying credited to important interests close to the management. Predictions are that results of the current year will be favorable. Diamond Match has a good dividend record, having paid out approximately $55,000,000 in the past 48 years, despite periods of depression during that time.
Newt-on St-eel Hit
By Depression
* Reflecting the protracted depression, particularly as it affected the automobile industry, the chief outlet for Newton Steel's large sheet steel capacity, the net loss of the company for 1930 was $437,429.
However, during the last six weeks operations at the Newton Falls plant have increased sharply, and while sheet prices, along with quotations of other steel products, are not entirely satisfactory, it appears that results during the current quarter will be better than those for the final three months of 1930. The Newton Falls plant is operating at 70% of capacity, while the Monroe works continue idle.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.