Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 1, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
By William J. Gomber
The anticipated technical recovery came in the stock fharket yesterday. Short covering began with the opening of business, indicating that many of the bears believed the market bad reached a temporary climax during the heavy pressure against Steel common oh. Wednesday. At first, the buying met considerable resistance, but as the day progressed and the covering continued, the offerings became smaller. In the afternoon, the market staged the best recoverv It has had in a long time. Outside shorts were running to cover actively. New selling came Into the leading stocks, but it was on an advancing scale and represented bear positions being established by those operators who had been so successful in the past. There was no evidence of important support, according to students, and the recovery, which was long over-due, was credited to technical conditions within the market Itself.
Most observers were looking for a rally and advising clients with long positions to protect those accounts with stops, raising the limits as higher prices are established. Recommendations that advantage be taken of the higher prices to reduce long commitments were numerous.
inn HOUMA Sought on Balance
Outside selling dried up as the advances were frying recorded, and the better market encouraged a moderate amount of new buying. Leading- commission houses were small buyers on Professionals and floor traders covered shorts heavily during the forenoon, but were sellers again later In the day. That element was a moderate seller on balance.
Absence of Support Still Evident
So far this week, there has been no evidence of support coming into the leading stocks. What buying has developed at lower prices from time to time has represented covering of shorts by traders and others who took advantage of opportunities to reduce their short commitments when advantageous prices prevailed. If there has been any long-pull buying in volume, it haB been done secretly'without attracting attention, and without checking the liquidation. The development of individual weakness in various groups has been disconcerting to those who were planning to come into the market for good-sized blocks of stocks on a scale to be held until signs of business betterment appeared and the market reflected such a change.
Buyers Should be Blscrimlnating	t
Interests who are taking a long-term view of the market and are confident a turn for the better will come when liquidation has been completed, are calling attention to the necessity of great discrimination in making buying selections. It is noteworthy that none of the students in the Street is willing even to guess when the market is likely to turn. However, they arc almost unanimous in the opinion that even when improvement comes, many stocks will not share in the -upturns. Hence, they are advising followers who intend to buy to give close attention to conditions surrounding a company or Industry before taking a long position when the time for such action comes.
Bivldend Talk on	”
N. Y. Central
Because there has been little support in New York Central at times recently, the financial district is inclined to discuss future dividends on the stock. Many are of the opinion that another downward revision may be made later this year unless business Improves materially. This opinion has been created by the lack of demand for the stock despite the high yield.
Studying Utilities Bividend Outlook
Reduction of thp Commonwealth A Southern dividend ha^evoked the opinion that some of the utilities are not free from business depression periods. For that reason, many students are watching developments and earnings of utilities more closely.	.
Foreign Selling in Royal Butch
. Foreign liquidation in Royal Butch Is reported to have been caused by the growing belief that the company will omit the dividend, action on which is due in two or three weeks. Shell-Union has suffered heavy losses in this country, and Royal Butch controls Shell. In addition, the depression in the oil Industry throughout the world has affected Royal-Dutch earnings adversely.	*
Yale A Towne In ?
Strong Bositlon	•	.
Yale & Towne has been selling at less than the net quick asset value of the stock after deducting all liabilities. Of course, earning power of the company has followed the waves of business, and the depression must have affected earnings. However, Yale & Towne has been in business for 90 years. It is in a strong financial position, with the book value of the -stock, Including only $1 for good will, at $46 a whare. Cash and equivalent is approximately $3,800,-OOO, equal to four years' dividend requirements at the current annual rats of $2 on 486,000 shares outstanding.
J. C. Penney May Show Increase
Predictions indicate that the April business of J. C. Penney was ahead of that in March. Sales in the first half of the month are said to have recorded a good Improvement, and while there may have been a decrease in the last 15 days, it is felt that the earlier gain was sufficient to overcome any later drop. Indications are that the total volume of business this year will not be as large as in 1930, but increased efficiency, better control over expenses and probable absence of inventory losses may be reflected in larger net results.
Bayuk Cigars* Asset Value
The net quick asset value of Bayuk Cigars is figured at about $32 & share, or considerably above the recent market-price for the stock. However, the low level for the shares reflects the anticipation of a reduction in the current $3 a share dividend rate, because only $3.04 a share was recorded last year, compared with $10.30 a share in 1929. The last cash dividend of 75 cents for the quarter was distributed April 15.
Investors After Steady Income
The demand for high-grade, low-interest bearing bonds and seasoned preferred stocks indicates that investors who have been disposing of common shares because of doubts concerning dividends are seeking assurance of a steady income on their funds. Various firms report that their investment customers are confining their purchases to such securities. Reports have been heard that an estate, handled by a bank, recently disposed of approximately $3,000,000 of common stocks and invested the money iu^pre-ferred issues and bonds.
n
Revision of Anti-Trust Law Would Help
Wall Street is interested in the intimation of the Chamb.er of Commerce of the United States that the next session of Congress will witness an offensive for revision of the anti-trust laws. A large part of the current economic ills are attributed to the antiquated Sherman Act by both industry and the financial district. It is maintained that poor earnings, and reduced or omitted dividends, as well as Idleness of workers, have resulted in part from unregulated production and prices. Business generally moves smoothly and profitably when consumption is equal to production. When the situation is reversed, price cutting becomes general and the effect is felt by industry as well as the worker.
Marine Bonds at
Low Prices
International Mercantile Marine first mortgage 6% bonds have been selling around the lowest prices in a long time. The entire funded debt of the company is $18,991,000. Including purchase money obligations, * total interest charges last year amounted to $1,712,000, for which there was available income of $2,964,000. The balance sheet at the end of 1930 showed cash, government securities and cash and receivables from property sold of $25,948,000, a total approximately $7,000,000 in expess of first mortgage bonds outstanding.
How They Stand
Earnings reports as compared with those for the -corresponding periods of last year, and dividend announcements as compared with the previous ones of leading companies ”
Since	
Increased earnings...	April 1 .. Ill
Decreased earnings.	. . 429
Unchanged dividends	.. 128
Increased dividends .	. . 6
Decreased dividends..	. .	36
Omitted, dividends. . .	. .	25
High and
Low Prices
Thursday,
118 new lows
Am C*n pf
Air Reduction Airway El An AI lectin pfww AllecCpfwwxl All IsCh aimers Am Brake Sh AmCnlorty ctf Am “- ■* •Am Am Am Am
Am Am
Am ______ ..
AssocDry Gds Atlantic Gnlt AostlnNIch A Bambercer pf Barker Bros. Barker Br pf. llethJehemStl, Beth Atl pf. . Blaw-KnnxOn Bnrrouchs Ad California Fk. Calu A Hecla Cnnntllnn Poe Caterpillar Tr Ch Pnea cv pl Collins 4 Apt Col Furl A Ir Conde Nnst . . ContBaklnr A (’ont Bnk’r pf Cont I> la Fibre Continent Ins Corn Prdncts Crown Zellerb Crucible Stl pf
Mrtnls . . Pwr & I.t Kad&KS. Hall MUI
Mmcltlny Steel Fdy Tel « Tel Water IV
follow:
Additions yesterday 2 22
. 14
2
1
three stocks made new _ for the year 1931 or longer.
New Highs Caro CAO ata New Lows
C»ba-Am Sue Curtis Pub lloTlaon Chem Electrio Boat fault orr Bid. Eureka Vac'm Falrbks Morse Federal Min*c Florsheim A General Cable Gent 7% pf* Gen Ital E E Goodyear 1 pf Gulf Slates St llaha Dept St liall Printinc Heresies Mot. Hercules Pow. Hud A Man pt Indian Motor Indian Mot pf Int Acri prpf Int PaAPw B Int Print Ink Katas C S pf Karstadt Inc. xaafman D 8 .uimbert Co..
'.ehich Valley Uccctt A My I.lnk Belt Co. blqiud Carb . McCall Corp.. Mrlxdlan 8 pf Mack Trucks. Mjijcma Cop Hanh Ry m c Missouri Pac. AIo Pac pf.. .
highs and
I
I
Nonind* Mln.
Moto Me G*E Myers a Ilro.
Sat Biscuit . S'at D 8 1 pf. Nat En A Sta
Sat supply.. X'nvnda Cons
Norf lk South OUverFami . Otis Kier .. Otis Nil pr pt Fur Gas A Kt
Pan Am B. Para-Publlx .
“ere Marq’tle ?cre Mara pf.
•ere M pr pf .'helps liodee Vbnenlx II pt Fierce Arrow*. Pitts t'nlted.. PreesedStC pf Fanta Alec ct Royal Out NT She! Tr A Tr Rolwv pf ww Sun OH pf. . . Thnmp Pr Inc Thompson Sts TldewAaoc pf Timken Oetrt Wabash pf A West Maryld. West Paa pf. West Union Westfr El 1pf Weston El In Worth Pump. Xonnsr SAW
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.