Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 4, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Uy Eichard E. Edmondwn
Stocks developed, a stronger tone yesterday, deriving stimulus from an improved performance on part of the principal rails. After leading the market downward since early November, the carrier group came to the rescue of pivotal industrials at a time when a break in this department through previous average resistance levels for the major decline appeared inevitable.
Industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages closed Wednesday at 8*7:90. compared with the extreme low for the year of 86.48 on October 5. With the leaders of this division at critical levels, they were subjected to further heavy selling in the early dealings on the theory that their Immediate position was precarious, and that moderate declines from the previous close would be followed by substantial extensions of the downward movement.
Steel common dipped fractionally into new low ground for the 1929-31 deflation, while Steel preferred suffered a six-point drop to its lowest levels since 1924. Weakness in the latter stock was attributed to the forced liquidation of impaired holdings.
However, the danger of immediate penetration of the early October lows by the industrial average was averted by the appearance of powerful support in the outstanding railroad shares. New York Central led an upturn in this department, responding to reports that the company’s bankers were favorable to satisfactory arrangements regarding the road’s short term obligations. After the close, announcement was made that New York Central had applied to the Interstate Commerce Commission for permission to issue $100,000,000 refunding and improvement mortgage bonds.
It was stated that the road has no present intention of selling the bonds, but desires the authority sought in order to have collateral to pledge for any short term notes which it may issue from time to time. New York Central at present has outstanding $51,500,000 of short term notes.
Improvement Sustained
Good-sized recoveries from their recent lows also took place in Atchison, Union Pacific, Chesapeake & Ohio and other leaders of the transportation category. With wheat and cotton prices moderately firmer, rallying tendencies spread to Steel. Allied Chemical. American Can and other pivotal industrials as the morning progressed.
Short covering came into the market in considerable volume during the afternoon when it became evident that the industrials had drawn away from the immediate danger zone. Buying activities were resumed in various specialties, with Auburn a volatile performer on the upside. Consistent improvement continued as the session drew to a close, and the day’s best levels were reached in the final
Speculative Demand Withheld
In view of the prompt appearance of renewed liquidation on moderate rallies recently, most Stock Exchange observers were advising postponement of long commitments until indications of a definite selling climax had developed. It was felt that price movements over the last several sessions had pointed to efforts to accomplish necessitous liquidation with the least possible disturbance to values.
During previous phases of the major decline, several days of exceptionally activity on the downside have been required to clean up forced selling, and open the way for a sustained recovery. Steady progress in deflation has been consistently reducing the severity of the successive selling steps. For this reason, some analysts have been hopeful that the current pressure would dry up without the necessity for a violent culminating outburst.
However, the climax theory has been operating so effectively this year that resumption of speculative buying on an active scale probably will not be seen until volume runs substantially in excess of 2,000.000 shares in a single session, or else better proof is afforded that liquidation is subsiding without running into a climax. Severe decInes in bonds, and continued weakness in investment preferred shares, have made traders skeptical about the immediate possibilties on the upside in the share list.
.	Professional Covering Seen
Unless a clear-cut selling occurs in the near future, it seems likely that some important constructive developments will be needed to change the present psychological attitude of the speculative community. In various well-informed quarters, confidence continues that such stimulating factors will be provided in the next week
or so from the railway wage negotiations, or the convening of Congress.
Meanwhile, the time is approaching when the market traditionally enjoys a good recovery over the year-end, and into January, or February. With this factor in prospect, experienced professionals have been wary about adding to short commitments at. this stage. On the contrary. steady covering operations have been undertaken recently by several operators who have garnered handsome profits on the down side in recent months.
Buying of this kind has been increased by the belief that a weak, overextended short position is currently outstanding. Many loading speculative stocks are now c-nm-manriing a premium in the loan crowd, including Allied Chemical, American Can. Atchison, J. I. Case, CocaCola, du Font, Eastman Kodak, North American. Reading. Union Pacific, and United States Steel common. This evidence of the large demand for stocks for borrowing purposes has caused many operators of long practice to be on the lookout for a sharp technical rally, and this fear has actuated extensive covering of the kind that Wall Street considers aig-nifira-nt-
Crude Oil Price Factors
Although some oil men are discussing the possibility of a further advance in crude oil prices >n the midcontinent, there can be little foundation for such action so long as crude oil production continues at its present level of 2.400.000 barrels daily. The prerequisite for an advance is curtailment in output to the level of consumption. At this time last year crude output ivus 2.265,900 barrels daily. The course of events in the East Texas oil field, which was not in existence a year ago but is now yielding about 400 000 barrels daily, is still the controlling element in the situation.
Railroad Wagon
"While the recommendation of the Board of Conciliation of Canada for a 10r'c decrease m railroad wages is indicative of governmental realization of the crisis confronting the railroads, it does not necessarily follow that we will follow the Canadian precedent, because our procedure is different,’’ says Walter J. Fahy & Co. "But it is entirely probable that we will do so— "First, because the railroad brotherhood leaders who argued against a wage cut in Canada are the same leaders who are argruing against a wage cut here;
"Second, because Canadian rail employes receive a wage averaging	less than that
, paid in the United States, and.
! "Third, because the brotherhood leaders are ! aware not only that there is no governmental , subsidy here but they also are aware that railroads arc m debt to the treasury to the extent i of over $100,000,000 and that the only manner J in which a wholesale tragedy such as occurred operating expenses. Freight and passenger traffic is needed but pending its arrival wages must come down. In our case, however, it is entirely probable that the brotherhood leaders will insist on incorporating m their agreement with the executives that when the roads return to a measurable degree of prosperity that wages will be restored to existing levels.
* Inasmuch as railroad securities infiltrate into . so many homes, trusts, insurance companies, i and savings banks, it may be well to clear up i a general misconception as to the rights of rail; roads to cut wages, notwithstanding the elaborate machinery which is set up by the govem-j ment to settle disputes between railroads nnd [ their employes.
• "There is no power vested in the govern-I ment which prevents railroads from cutting | wages after they have posted a notice to the . effect that after a period of 30 days they intend to do so There is no power to compel the men ( to work after such period and there is no power 1 to compel the railroads to rcstoie wages to ’ former levels A cb.se in point is that of the ; Louisiana & Arkansas Railroad which cut , wages 10r4 because of financial necessities The employes appealed to the three bodies open to them for relief, namely, mediation, arbitration. ( and finally a fact finding commission appointed by the President. The railroad stood pat, notwithstanding an adverse decision and the wage cut remains m effect.
"Railroad executives today are confronted with the necessity of protecting their property and their stockholders, and in protecting each they are protecting their employes. Of course, the employes have the right to strike, but in the present state of affairs in this country we doubt very seriously if they will do so."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.