Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 8, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8	---------
Abreast of the Market
Wall Street found itself yesterday in the unusual position of regarding the opening of Congress without any trace of nervousness. Instead. this development was looked upon as a factor of constructive possibilities.
With the Senate and House about evenly divided politically, and the country eager for measures to stimulate business revival, no apprehension existed as to the likelihood of disturbing agitation during the present session. Moreover, considerable confidence was entertained concerning prospects of helpful legislation, explaining why the return of the law makers to Washington was greeted with such equanimity.
Active buying came into the principal shares during the first hour on the expectation that President Hoover’s message to Congress would favor steps to strengthen financial and economic conditions. A favorable impression also was created by details of the $1,300,000,000 Treasury offering. Announcement that this would take the form of short-term securities had firming influences on the existing long-term government obligations.	.
Brisk demand was created in many sections of the list by a change in attitude on part of professional operators regarding the immediate outlook for the market. Several professionals prominent in selling activities over the last two years were lined up on the buying side, and their operations were translated into fairly spirited advances in individual issues, notably-J. I. Case and Auburn. American Can was a feature of the pivotal industrials, running up to a new high on the rally in response to a 3% increase in tin plate production, which is currently averaging 48% of capacity.
Stocks Dull on Setbucks
General extensions of Saturday’s upswing also took place in Allieu Chemical, Steel. American Telephone, Consolidated Gas. and other leading shares. However, the earlier gains were mostly effaced toward noon by irregularity that developed in the wake of renewed pressure on special stocks.
Dividend uncertainties caused a good-sized setback in New York Central, which affected Atchison, Union Pacific, and other representative carrier issues. Standard of New Jersey likewise was under pressure, large offerings of the stock being ascribed to tax selling.
But reactionary tendencies showed no disposition to pick up momentum. Trading slackened on 'recessions, and fluctuations were confined to an extremely narrow range through the middle of the day and into the early afternoon. Bullish sentiment was increased by the action of the market under pressure, and prices firmed up again on a broad front during the last hour.
Professionals More Optimistic
Continuation of a low rate of activity in commercial and industrial lines is restraining share buying of the type that comes from business men when they see signs of improvement in their respective lines. However, the fact that most branches of trade have been so thoroughly deflated is actuating persistent accumulation bv interests feeling that the inventory situation indicates that some acceleration of demand is bound to be witnessed next year.
This thought has also formed the basis for extensive short covering by large professional operators who have consistently maintained for the last two years that the trend of business pointed to lower stock prices. Now that the severe trade slump which they were expecting has materialized, these people have been increasingly cautious regarding the short side, believing that existing conditions have been largely discounted by the drastic shrinkage in security values.
It is felt that the necessary economic readjustment is nearing completion in view of the numerous difficult problems that nave been effectively dealt with over the last six or eight months. It is pointed out that, outside of the railway- field, wage scales throughout the country’ are now nearly in line with lowered living costs.
Bunking conditions have been stabilized by. the National Credit Corp., and. retail prices are more in line with wholesale prices, thus facilitating a flow manufactured goods into direct consumption. Undoubtedly*, the most bothersome situation at present is the question of Germany’s credit position. However, it is believed that this problem has such far-reaching inter-
national ramifications that its exigencies will force an ultimate solution on a constructive basis.
Rail Dividend Meetings
New York. New Haven & Hartford board of directors meets for dividend action today and New York Central meets on Wednesday*. The results of both meetings are awaited by the Street with great interest. It is known that the more conservative members of the New Haven board believe that the road should not pay out more than it earns on its common stock in any* year and therefore are against making any additional payments for the present. They point out that the road has paid stockholders this year $5.50. while the road’s earnings will total only slightly more than $3. The more optimistic members of the board favor putting the stock on a $3 annual basis against current rate of $4.
Up until a short while ago there was strong belief that New York Central would go on a $2 annual basis at Wednesday’s meeting against present rate of $4. But the continued decline in the road’s traffic has made it possible that the board will decide to omit the dividend entirely. Both meetings are held in the morning, New Haven's beginning at about 10 o’clock today and Central’s at 10 o'clock on Wednesday*, day*.	”
Communications Dividends
Two important communications' dividends will be acted on in the current week. Western Union Telegraph directors meet to act on quarterly •dividend today at 2 30 o’clock and they have already indicated that a dividend of $1.50 will be declared against previous $2 dividend or $S rate.
International Telephone & Telegraph directors meet to act on quarterly dividend Thursday at 3 o’clock At last meeting the dividend was cut from 50 cents to 25 cents quarterly.
Export Regular Thompson Dividend
Directors of John R. Thompson Co. are expected tn declare the regular quarterly* dividend of 25 cents on the capital stock when they* meet around noon today. Charles A. McCulloch, chairman of the board and treasurer, recently estimated that company would report net profit for the year ending December 31. of around $900,000 after all charges and taxes, equal to about $3 a share on 300,000 shares of capital stock.
Current dividend rate of $1 annually was initiated with the July 1 payment. In the preceding'quarter company paid a 50-cent dividend. prior to which stock was on a $3 annual basis
J. R. Thompson has fared relatively* well this y*ear as a result of an aggressive sales policy of offering food at low, ’’pre-war” prices. Over 400.000 new customers have been added since July 31, many* of whom are women. Company has extensively* remodeled its restaurants, cost of which work has been charged against current operations.
Tax Selling Affects Securities
"Factors other than lack of financial confidence are probably exercising important pressure on markets this month, and might bo clearing the way for better markets before and after the yeax -end ” says G M.-P Murphy* & Co "Tax selling has probably been a very important influence, not only in listed stocks but in bonds and bank stocks* But aside from that there is a greater desire for liquidity this year than ever before, probably because balance sheets will be scrutinized more closely this year than for many years back. Banks are probably* leaning over backwards in order to show large holdings of cash and cash items for the year-end call, and corporations of other types are doing the same thing. If such operations are on a scale as large as some think, there might be a decided scarcity of offerings late this month or early next in many securities for which bidders have been hard to find m the recent past.
"A canvass of those who watch the security* markets for the leading life insurance companies reveals an attitude toward the security* markets, and especially toward rail prior securities, considerably* 3ess pessimistic than that expressed in speculative circles * Consensus seems to be that rail bonds generally* are near buying levels and that while some small receiverships are possible, many of the securities which have been very weak have suffered from scarcity of buyers rather than from fundamental weaknesses.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.