Abreast of the Market: A Daily Column of Comment By WILLIAM J.GOMBER
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 22, 1931; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 2
A Daily Column of Comment
By Wn.r.TAM j; Gomber
The market again demonstrated its inability to hold rallies. Yesterday’s session started with considerable'outside liquidation as a result of over-night sailing orders. Later in the day the bear contingent resumed active pressure against the list. The result was that new lows were established In a large number of Issues which are ordinarily attractive to outsiders. Steel common was the leader in this group* and kept sinking almost throughout the entire session. The selling was not particularly large, but the action of this pivotal stock in failing to show any rally brought liquidation into the general list, with weakness prevailing at the close.
Sentiment continues bearish in speculative quarters, and this fact is keeping support out of the market. It is felt that the professionals are in control of the situation and, while they are selling stocks, the tendency is to remain on the side lines, reducing long positions vaenever possible during the technical rebound when the market becomes over-sold.
Commission Bouses Sold on Balance
Outsiders sold stocks more actively yesterday than in some time. This supply was considerably In excess of the buying and the leading firms sold on balance. ^Professionals and floor traders were pressing pivotal shares, but took advantage of the weakness which spread into the more speculative issues to cover shorts in many directions. This element purchased on balance.
Recoveries Will	,
Be Technical
With but little encouragement likely to come from the business world in the near future, any early recovery in the stock market probably will result from technical conditions. A moderate amount of scale buying has been transacted on sharp reactions by those looking far into the future. The purchases have been made when offerings have been heavy, and have been without great influence. The stocks were taken only at prices below* those which had prevailed previously.
Short Selling Report* Delayed Liquidation
Talk about short selling caused a number of outsiders to delay liquidating part of their long holdings on the theory that the market would rally sharply when bear pressure was lifted. Not all the supply came from the bear traders, and in recent sessions those who had postponed liquidating were selling. That naturally prolongs a downward movement.
Business May Be Scraping Bottom -
A number of economists are of the opinion that business is scraping bottom. That does not mean that they are looking for early improvement, but that they do not anticipate any sharp decline in the coming months. The summer season usually is dull for business, of course.
Absence of Volume Is Disappointing
The absence of volume during the declining market has been one of the disappointing developments. It has kept many on the side lines. If the volume of transactions were larger, the decline would be ended sooner, in the opinion of many. Sagging prices with small dealings always cause distrust. Consequently, still lower prices are being predicted by many observers.
Are Corporation* Buying Stocks?
A question frequently asked is whether corporations have been buying their shares during the recent market decline. No official answer is possible, although in certain quarters it is main-' talned that some of the organizations have been taking a small amount of their own stock at times. It is considered unlikely that the practice will be as general as in 1930, however, when buying by corporations was a factor during reactions. Many corporations from Union Carbide and International Harvester down to those of considerably less Importance were buyers last year.
Important Steel Report* Coming Next Week
Important steel reports will be issued next week, although it is a foregone conclusion that the comparisons will not make encouraging reading. On Tuesday, the first quarter earnings of U. S. Steel will be published, and those of Bethlehem Steel will come out Thursday afternoon. Directors of both organizations will act on their dividends at the meetings, and considerable will depend upon what is done by each board.
Support Coming into
American Can
At times recently, scale support has been evident in American Can, although no efforts have been made to advance the stock against the general trend. One or two of the bears repeatedly have broadcast their intention of depressing this popular leader, but that has not resulted in any large amount of outside liquida-tJnn.
Corn Product* to Cover Dividend
Earnings of Com Products for the first quarter probably will cover the regular quarterly dividend of 75 cents a share by a small margin. That would compare with 91.07 a share for the corresponding three months of 1830. In some quarters, it is contended, that the outlook for the current quarter is doubtful as yet, and no predictions are being made as to the showing for that period.
Atlantic Coast Line’s Passenger Earnings
The extent of the decline in passenger business through competition with the automobile is emphasized in Atlantic Coast Line’s report. It states that local passenger receipts in 1923 aggregated $8,268,802, whereas last year they amounted to only $2,145,155. Through passenger business totaled $9,726,277 in 1923, rose to a high of $14,456,153 in 1925, and was only $8,393,186 tn 1930. The road estimates that approximately $6,500,000 in prospective freight revenue was lost to the motor trucks last year, By way of experiment, rates have been reduced on certain commodities but without substantial results, the motor trucks having met each reduction.
Studebaker** Campaign for More Business
Studebaker has been conducting & campaign for more business among its stockholders. The corporation states In a letter that no doubt the shareholders contributed to the shipments of 7,011 cars in March, the largest for any month since September, 1929. The March shipments were 11% in excess of those for the corresponding month of 1930 and 64% ahead of February 1931.
Magma Copper’s First Quarter
Magma Copper’s profit of $111,425 in the first quarter was equal to about 28 cents a share, or 22 cents less than the quarterly dividend of 50	& share. In other words. Magma had
to draw on surplus to the extent of nearly $90,000 to meet its full dividend. That does not mean heavy inroads on surplus, as Magma at the close of last year had cash and investment securities of approximately $4,000,000, equal to nearly $10 a share.
Pressure on Jewel Tea
Selling pressure has been coining into Jewel Tea. Some weeks ago, talk was heard concerning dividend doubts, but the regular distribution was declared only a few days ago. The company earned $6.09 a share last year and has shown in excess of its $4 a share dividend in each year since 1925. It has an unusual mode of operation, as it distributes groceries at retail over a large number cl c~.abl:£hcd motor truck routes.
How They Stand
Earnings reports, as compared with those of the corresponding periods a year ago, and dividend announcements as compared with previous ones, of leading companies follow:
Since Additions April 1 Yesterday Increased earnings......... 73	8
• Decreased earnings........191	15
Unchanged dividends........138	14
Increased dividends........ 5	•'	1
Decreased dividends .......21	1
Omitted dividends ........ 15	.
High and Low Price*	_
Tuesday seven stocks made new highs and
115 new lows
Am Can pf .. Arn Ton pt. . Bncy Uric pt
the year 1931
New Highs: City IceAF pr I^ebVlCoal pf
or longer.
Lire A M pf. la Xr C A C
Abitlhl Pw pf Airway Kt Ap AJJerha pfvrw AmAcrC I>rI Am Car A Fy Am Chain Co AmColorty ett Am Com Ale. AmiFl’ 2pfA. Am Ix>ccmotT Am Krpublic» Aaaoc Apparel Atchl»on ..... Atl ComtLine Bnldvt in Lxx o Balt A Ohio. . Barnsdall A . . Bajuk CIkmt. Blaw*KnoxOn Brork MT pt Burni Bri>» JB Busk Term.
Californio Pic. Canadian Fac Checker Cab Che* & Ohio. Ch I'neu «▼ pf City JceAFuel Colente Fa pf Col Fl A Xr pf Columbia <■•• C KR Cuba pf ContSSukln* A Continent! Oil Corn PrdnrtB Crown Zetlrrb Bel Ia»c ft W EtkRomCI of.
Off Bld.
New Lows:
Brie ........
Falrbke Murae Federal Motor FedScre w Wks Follaxaabee Br Gardner Mot Gen Asphalt. Gen'l Bak Co GraC 7% pf t.oodrlcb .	..
Goodrich pf.. Grt Xor pf . Ilarblaon al Hudson Motor Illinois Cent.
Xndast JRajon luKcrooll K’tl. Interboro B T Xnt Paper 7pf lntrrnatl Sait Kelsey Hnye*. Klmbly Clark lj»ne Bryant. Ltrcet* A My Llqlad Carb.. Iax'w's lne... Xxtuls A Nash Marlin Rock. Matheson Aik Mld-Cont Pet. Mo Kan A T. Mo Pac pf. . . X V Central. X Y C A S L, Ohio OU......
Otis Elet ... Packard Mot Pan Am B.
Panhandle PR Para-Fubllx . Pitta Sc A Bit Pure OU . . . Keo Motor... St X^Saa Ft. St L A 8 F pf StLBouthw pf Seajrrave .... SheU la Oil. Simms Petrol Skelly Oil .. SkellyO pfvrw Southern Pae. So B MAO ct. Sparks M 1th. Std OU or Cal StdOll of Kan Std OU of NJ Std 011 X x. Texas Corp.
Texas Gulf Su Tex Pac CAO TldewAssoc pf I nion OU Cal X'nlon Pacific V S Realty. . . IT s Steel.... lanadlum Cor Va Car C 7pf M'abaali ..... Walworth Co.
W am B P pf West Mary Id, West t'akxi
Westf Air B. Westlnyh Klee Tounr 8 A W
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.