Broad Street Gossip
By William J. Gomber
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 25, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2
By tl'illiam J. Gombcr
~M.arket Diary
	Wednesday	
	2931	2930
Average 30 industrials	. .151 *0-7.71	315.56-r 3.74
Average 20 railroads.. .	. . 64.30	3 50	225.03— .97
A v,r,	SO uHIPIm ....	*0.43 — 1 73	78.00 -r- .34
Average 40 boeds......	. . 95.35 -r- .07	PC .68	 .37
Afrw-lr	.........	..	5,100.000	3.395.500
Since January' 1........	. . 318.602 89T	486.475.100
	.. 8i2.806.ooo	612.150.000
Since January 1			31.388.931.000	81,464.611.000
Copper, delivered ......	.	SH -T- Vi.	12 .
M V .Tnlv	t rm ......	. .	9 *4 —.20	13 33 — .20
Chicago July wheat....	..	58 H -r %	68	+ Vs
Cali money		. 1 -	2<C-	. .
Xlnety day time money	.	1\< «J u	2H cr
Acceptance*. 90 days . . .	.	1*1 'kOfl “r	
Commercial paper.. .	l’» <&.	
Sterling cable* 		. .	4 Mil	4.8*
New York bank rate	.	2Vs 'Zr
Xedeml Reserve ratio	.	85 2 *7	83
Crrmptrtr tatmiatltm of the Dov-Jrwn atomic aver, agrs, with rAarfi, CMrd /rom last papc.
Further sharp advances were recorded in the stock market yesterday, the chief Influence being the conditional acceptance of the debt holiday by France. Initial gains were moderate in all stocks except the tobaccos, which were sharply higher on the announcement of an advance in cigarette prices. However, the upturn gained momentum as the day progressed, and trading increased substantially in volume during the recovery. Shorts were badly punished again as they attempted to cover, and when these interests were bidding for stocks the offerings were reduced.
It was not until the late dealing that profittaking developed in sufficient volume to cause moderate set-backs from the highest of the day. U. S. Steel was one of the outstanding leaders despite the reduction in ingot production. The action of this stock, as in the past, encouraged a larger outside participation on the loDg side. Many of the specialties seemed to have come under the direction of pools again and moved ahead in an impressive manner. Radio was strong on buying which followed the renewal of its licenses for broadcasting and communications.
Again the action of the market has impressed many interests who are confident that the advance will continue, although conservative observers favor the use of stops, the limits on which can be raised as further gains are recorded. Warnings against bidding for stocks on the upturns are coming from some students, who urge that clients wait for reactions to pick up their favorites.	•
Professionals Sold On Balance
Commission houses had some selling orders, but, as in the past few days, the new interest created by the action of the market caused increased outside buying. Leading firms bought on balance. Professionals and floor traders covered stocks actively, but the higher prices attracted considerable profit-taking, and this element sold on balance.
Increased Public
Attendance
That the reversal in the market renewed the interest of outsiders is indicated by the larger attendance in commission houses. Customers .who had not been watching the market lor a long time have been in the various offices m the post few days. Many of them have not regained sufficient courage to purchase stocks. It is likely, however, that any good reaction will find a demand coming from those who have had funds but were inclined to wait for the market to prove its ability to move forward and hold an advance.
Eradication of
Fear
One of the results of the proposed plan for the temporary settlement of European uncertainties has been the eradication of the fear which prevailed in so many quarters, in the past few months The popular opinion is that the plan of President Hoover is the first constructive step, which will be followed by others favorable to the railroads and finally to the agriculturalists of this country.
Business Trend
Unchanged
There is no change in the business trend of the leading basic industries. The advances which took place m the stock market merely reflected the improvement in sentiment thus far. However, little doubt is expressed that if it is possible to adjust conditions abroad, it will have a beneficial effect on industry in this country Industrial leaders are watching developments closely. Many of them have not generated.as much enthusiasm as has been witnessed among the professionals and floor traders in the past few days. -
Drop In Freight Loading* Disappointing
The decrease of 28.437 in freight loadings for week ended June 13, last, from those of the preceding week was larger than had been predicted. in the financial district. The total of 732,453 cars was 193,613, or 20.9%, below those for the corresponding week of last year, and a reduction of 337.217, or 31.5%, from those of the corresponding week of 1929.
Test May Come
Soon
The stock market was In a technical position to respond to any unusually constructive development. This explains the sharp advance which took place following the announcement of President Hoover late last week. There was a substantial short interest in existence, not only among professionals, but also for public account. Outsiders were selling stocks up to a few days ago, despite the strong advice from brokers against this practice. Naturally, with
& substantial short position outstanding, the initial advance started a covering movement which, gained momentum as prices continued to go higher.
It is known that some of the big leaders of the bear party In the past two years, who were not converted to the bull side a month, or ro ago, have maintained their short position. The logical prediction is that these operators will attempt to test out the ability of the market to absorb pressure. Considerable will depend on the action of stocks if such a wave of selling develops. Should good resistance be displayed, it will go a long way toward bringing a larger outside following to the long aide.
Auto Companies’ Earning?*
When discussions are heard concerning the prospects for second quarter earnings, it is evident that many anticipate a much better comparative showing from the automobile companies than from other industries. However, there is a probability of smaller revenues for the motor concerns during mid-summer. Exceptions may be the companies which bring out new models that win public favor,.
National Cash Register Doing Better
The general belief in responsible quarters is that earnings of National Cash Register showed substantial improvements in the second quarter over the first three months. Because of this fact, there are many who believe that the S3 a share dividend on the “A” stock will be resumed at the September meeting of the board. The stock is cumulative, and it is maintained that directors will desire to resume pajments as soon as they are justified by earnings and the outlook.
Truck Business For Harvester
Conditions in the agricultural districts have been mentioned often as affecting the business of International Harvester, and caused liquidation in the stock several months ago. Now, interests usually well informed contend that the company has prospects of obtaining important truck orders, as the management has expanded this field steadily. Good scale buying has taken place in the stock at times, particularly on reactions, based on the outlook for truck orders and the strong financial position of the company. This buying is believed to have been of the longterm variety.
Short Interest In
Du Font
A substantial short interest Rtill exists in Du Fofit. The stock was one of the targets which was pressed for sale by the bears from time to time. Many rumors of an unfavorable nature were circulated, all of which apparently were without foundation. In some quarters, it is contended that there has been better than seasonal improvement in earnings because of a moderate increase in sales and operating economies. There is a tendency to make upward revisions in guesses as to earnings this year.
Coca-Cola**
Year
Coca-Cola is one of the companies which has passed through the severe depression period without material effect on earnings. Because of lower costs for some raw materials, the company has recorded continued improvement in net. Estimates now are that 1931. despite conditions in other lines, will show earnings somewhat in excess of the $11.15 a share reported for 1930.
Commercial Solvent*
Accumulation
The accumulation which was in evidence In Commercial Solvents in the past was based on the prediction that earnings for the second quarter would at least equal the 21 cents a share reported for the first three months. However, because of the anticipation of seasonal decline in the automobile business with the beginning of the summer, it is probable that third quarter results will be somewhat less than those of the two preceding periods.
Stock Sale*
Increase
Trading in stocks on the Exchange Wednesday totaled 5.100.000 shares. This was the largest five-hour day since February 24, when 5.345,-71(fc>shares were sold.
How They
Stand
Earnings reports ws compared with those for the corresponding periods of last year, and dividend announcements as compared with the previous ones of leading companies follow:
	Since April 1	Additions yesterday
Increased earnings .. •.	... 229	5
Decreased earnings .. .	... 806	8
Unchanged dividends ..	.. .1094	16
Increased dividends . . . .	. . .	19	
Decreased dividends . .	. . . 143	2
Omitted dividends .. .	... 117	• .
High an<T
Low Price*
Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange 8 stocks made new highs and S new lows for the year 1931 or longer.
New High*
BrownKlio* l>f ! Ixirlllard Tob. I ReynnldeTn B Canada. Snnth BorlUarri pf . Konlte Fro<l... Col Graph ct. I XT Ont * W I
New Low*
Cnlf St St! pf r McGrawH J»b t Worthing pfB
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.