Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 24, 1931;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Bichard E. Edmondson
Stocks staged a vigorous advance on a broad front yesterday, mirroring relief felt in Wall Street over the elimination of uncertainty as to how industry would deal with the wage problem. Announcement after Tuesday’s close of a 10% reduction in wages by three leading steel companies stimulated general buying at the opening, with U. S. Steel leading the forward movement in the principal stocks.
Advancing tendencies gradually picked up momentum as the morning progressed. Optimism over the outlook for an early decision of favorable character on the railroads* application for higher rates was translated into a greatly improved tone in stocks of this class. Sweeping gains took place in New York Cen-tral,*Atchison, Union Pacific, Pennsylvania and other representative carrier shares.
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western was an outstanding feature of the lower-priced rails, staging an uprush of more than 7 points. This spurt followed revelation that New York Central was adding to its	holdings to
further its plans for eventual absorption of the latter road.
In view of the lifting of restrictions on short selling, the strength displayed by the general market exercised a particularly bullish influence on sentiment. With large operators free to follow their own devices, it was regarded as significant that the chief activity broke out on the upside. This consideration gave impetus to the upswing in pivotal shares, and the market generally displayed the greatest strength seen since the culmination of the moratorium rally in June.
News of a steady closing in London, and general gains in other important European markets were followed by the establishment of new highs on the movement in American shares during the middle of the day. Bonds also displayed a greatly improved tone, and bank stocks showed substantial gains.
In the late afternoon, however, considerable profit-taking appeared, attracted by the extensive character of the day’s advances. Realizing sales caused considerable irregularity in the late afternoon. Steel common experienced a goodsized setback from the best levels of the session. Anaconda was subjected to fresh pressure, breaking to a new low for the bear market.
Wage Cuts Help Sentiment
Wall Street’s favorable reaction to the general wage cuts in the steel industry was a reflection of the sentiment in business and industrial circles that such a program was essential to trade recox’ery. Reduction in wages as a step toward economic readjustment was regarded as particularly constructive in that it represented a recognition of the lower cost of living, and hence would work no hardship on labor. As a matter of fact, it was figured that wage-earners are still ahead since the dollar today, m comparison with the dollar two years ago. can buy $1.25 of everything that goes into the cost of living.
With living costs substantially lower, and the return on capital notably reduced, it was inevitable that the liquidation of labor would have to be undertaken. Consequently, the announcement of the steel companies removed a source of considerable uncertainty marketwise for the last several months. Similar action on part of other industrial lines, and by the railroads is expected to follow shortly, and the fact that reductions in the steel trade were so constructively interpreted eliminates nervousness m this respect.
Id the case of the railroads, wages represent 45 cents of every dollar of gross. It is estimated that a 10% reduction in railway wages would mean slightly more to the roads in terms of per share earnings than a 5% increase in freight rates. A study of the influence of a 5% rate increase on the annual earnings of leading railloads computes the gam that would result from such a development at $3.63 a share on Atchison, $3 07 a share on New York Central,
$6.46 on Rock Island. $4.53 on ’Frisco common, $3.41 on Union Pacific, $2 a share on New Haven, and $1.51 on Pennsylvania.
Woolworth Improves
After displaying a distinctly heavy tone for several sessions. Woolworth enjoyed a sharp recovery. Recent selling, which carried Woolworth under 50, was attributed to the liquidation of a pool which operated in the stock during the summer months. With this selling completed. the stock showed relief from pressure, and rebounded easily. This rally was helped along by knowledge that the company had already transferred to this country the bulk of the proceeds from the sale in London of stock in its British subsidiary. Hence, this transaction will be little affected by the slump m sterling.
Kansas City Southern
Kansas City Southern has staged a goodsized recovery from its break on Monday to a new low for the bear market at 8*4. This decline followed announcement of the suspension from the Stock Exchange of Schuyler, Chadwick A Burnham. This firm has been a registered holder of 7,600 shares of Kansas City Southern for the last two years. It is understood that Alleghany Corp.’s holdings of 106,600 shares of Kansas City Southern, which equal about 36% of the outstanding issue, continue intact.
• Fast Texas Output Lower
Advices from Texas indicate that the recently amended order of the Railroad Commission, reducing allowable output per well in East Texas field to 185 barrels daily from 225, is having a beneficial effect. Tuesday’s production m the area is placed at 366,000 barrels, which compares with 425,000 barrels reached prior to the amended order of the commission.
Tn Oklahoma the question of whether the oil pools shut down in that state since August 5 are soon to be reopened to production is the subject of conjecture. While there is a belief in some quarters that resumption of output will be permitted in the near future, there seems to be no official support for this contention.
General Motors
Action of General Motors in reducing all salaries by from 10 to 20% is the first general readjustment in compensation to employes made by the corporation so far during the depression. While substantial reductions in costs have been effected, as demonstrated by the corporation’s earnings performance on reduced vulume, these savings have previously been achieved through improved efficiency in operating methods and through lowered overhead expenses rather than by reductions in the scale of pay. Hourly wage rates remain unchanged.
While no official intimation has been made of the nmount of savings which will result from the salary cut, the reduction in the corporation’s payroll. which totaled $279,000,000 in 1930, will be'substantial, with about one-fourth of all employes understood to be on a salaried basis. Conservative unofficial estimates have placed the annual total equal to roughly 20 cents a share on the common stock.
Steel Industry L»g*
Steel reviews of the week offered little encouragement. aside from a little increase in structural inquiries Railroads and automotive companies as yet have displayed little interest in anticipating fall requirements. In the case of the former, the steel industry has no illusions for it is realized that the earners arc in no position to make substantial purchases.
The motor trade, however, was counted on to supply more business than has as yet developed, and the continued lethargy in this direction has been disappointing. Considerable interest centers around the price situation, and the trade hopes to be able to hold the advantage obtained in a 10rr reduction in wages and wnl res.st attempts to weaken prices if inquiries appear shortly.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.