Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 4, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
Stocks were unsettled in the opening session of the new year by an outbrust of selling in the motor shares. Weakness in this group, coming a week before the opening of the New York Automobile Show, when sentiment in the Indus-'try is traditionally optimistic, reflected fears that the low levels of employment throughout the country, and the decreased purchasing power in agricultural areas, would lessen public response to new models being offered by the leading manufacturers.
A further disturbing influence was the obscurity surrounding the plans of Ford Motor! Co., a factor of great importance for the com- j petitive standing of the balance of the automobile trade. Although it is generally conceded that Ford’s new lines will sharpen the motor field’s already keen competition, many authorities are convinced that Fords* long delay in announcing new models has in itself been a deterrent to prospective sales by his company.
It is thought that Ford’s active reentry into the market, in addition to stimulating his own business, will represent a constructive development for the entire industry. It will clear away one important basis for the present uncertainty by removing a factor that has undoubtedly delayed a considerable number of sales in the low-priced field.
General Motors led the downward swing in* automobile stocks, breaking to a new low on the current movement under large offerings Substantial selling of General Motors was attributed to a Boston, operator, prominent on the short side in late 1929, and throughout 1930. Auburn displayed a thin market, dropping sharply to the accompaniment of reports that a pool, which sponsored the stock in the final quarter of 1931, had disbanded.
Steel Common in Supply
Active selling spread from the m^tor group to Steel common on the theory that a disappointing showing with regard to automobile sales would have an adverse effect on the steel trade. Latter has been, counting strongly on motor demand to supply the stimulus for increased production m the earlier months of the year.
Steel experienced a good-sized setback from last week’s high, but received effective support above its 1931 resistance level of 36. With Steel displaying a heavy tone, reactionary tendencies also affected Allied Chemical. American Can New York Central, American Telephone and other pivotal issues. While trading turned increasingly dull as prices worked lower no important rallies occurred as the abbreviated session drew to a close.
Stork Market in Liquid Position
Although 1932 is starting with busmess at extremely depressed levels, and various economic problems yet to be threshed out. the internal position of the stock market suggests that it is no longer open to serious disturbances Last j ear ended with brokers M>ans down to $591,000,000, or 8"rr of the record high of $6800.000.000 reached in October. 1929. when the epochal deflation of the pa*t 27 months set in
As of December 31, 3931. industrials used m the Dow-Jones averages stood at 77 90 compared with the peak of 381 17 on September 3 1929 a shrinkage of 80r< Taking into consid-oration this drastic depreciation in quoted values, and the fact that the market is so near to an actual cash basis, it is evident that the depressing influence of any further adverse developments will be minimized.
What makes the technical statu* of the mam body of stocks particularly strong at this time is the urge for liquidity that characterized the closing months of 1931. In the corresponding period of the previous year, interests who were selling stocks to register tax losses almost invariably replaced the proceeds in other shares available around similar levels, or accomplished the tax operations through transfers to other names.
Potential Demand Exists
Lant month, however, a substantial part of the tax selling represented outright liquidation. Most people felt tht a chance would be afforded to replace their holdings at their leisure, and this situation has created a potential demand for stocks of huge proportions.
In addition, a large buying power exists in the form of technical short positions against safety deposit box holdings. Interests who have kept their shares in strong boxes, and taken short positions against them, obviously intend to cancel their short contracts when they believe bottom has been reached.
Consequently, any indications of a business upturn seem likely to be translated into active buying on part of sold-out balls, and investors desiring to protect box holdings At presen’, the market’s position is diametrically opposite to what it was in stud-summer. 3929. when the craze for common stocks stimulated the formation of investment trusts on a wholesale scale, and induced excessive borrowings to participate in the expected continuation of rising prices Now the pessimistic speculative psychology; and the aversion to common stocks, indicate that the market is fully as strong fundamentallv today’ as it was weak at the peak of the bull movement
Bond Action Encouraging
In addition to the sold-out condition of speculative holdings, and the low state of brokers’ loans, the belief that the short aide of the stock market was becoming increasingly’ hazardous
was induced by the recent Impressive action of the principal bonds. Fixed revenue securities closed 1931 with one of the most buoyant demonstrations of recent years.
At Thursday’s close. 40 representative bonds used in the Dow-Jones averages stood at 77.77. a new high on the recovery from the December 17 low of 73.36, which had been the lowest level touched since 1921. In advancing 4 41 points from the low point of December, bonds recovered 33% of the entire loss from the November 10 high of 86 45 to the December 17 low.
Last year’s final session found industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages at 77.90, compared with the December 17 low of 73 79. Pivotal industrials broke from 316 79 on November 9 to the low of December 17, a decline of 43 points. At Thursday’s close, industrial stocks had recovered only’ 9r r of this recession, standing at 77.90.
Experienced students of the market have persistently maintained that any lasting improvement in the share list must be preceded by definite recovery’ in bonds. Hence, the recent performance of bonds has been conducive to bullish thought. Reports persist that a banking group has planned a pool of $100,000,000 to take advantage of prevailing opportunities in the bond market. While these rumors lack confirmation. it is generally expected that January dividend and interest disbursements, which aggregated close to $1,000,000,000. will find reflection in substantial reinvestment demand for i epresentative bonds.
Wheat Trade More Optimistic
Although wheat closed a thoroughly' bleak 1931 year from both production and marketing standpoints, trade sentiment is moderately optimistic. Exporters are hopeful that the trend will ultimately’ swing toward higher usage of United States wheat, despite the Xaut that the most favorable period of the season for our shipments has passed with domestic wheat still off an export basis with Liverpool.
The Argentine and Australian new crops are now rushing to market and will likely prove the main supply’ for consumers fn? the first six months of 3 932. However, barring the incalculable Russia, the world will then have to again look to North America for its supplies Moreover. although present indications are for a record old crop surplus on July* 3 next, the current cutlook is for the smallest United States output since 3 901.
Comm.ss.on houses have had numerous orders within the y ast month f:om farmers, who, rather than seed their usual wheat acreage and produce with wheat bringing 25 to 30 cents on the farm or far under their costs arc buying future'. for July delivery, indicating their belief in a world uptrend m the main: cereal.
Otho- producers who are also following the policy of allowing their lands to lie fallow, have been busy fixing up temporary storage space in garages, narns etc, and buying up their neighbors surplus wheat at the farm price with the intention of withholding it and marketing the gram next J^ly in place of their missing crop
In gram trade quarters, the slowly’ diminishing wheat stocks of the Federal Farm Board, winch are currently placed at around ISO 000.000 bushcis are held as the chief deterrent to higher prices Many operators have been reluctant to enter the market until after the holidays, although there hnie been signs of buving by’ eastern interests which revealed an overcongested short interest. These buy.ng spurts, however, have been fitful.
Rescne Credit Expands
The last Federal Reserve statements of 1931 reflect heavy’ operations on the part of member banks for w.ndow-dressmg Federal Reserve credit outstanding rose $196 000 000 to meet these demands, with the increase accounted for by' expansion of $113,000,000 in discounts. $45 -000.000 in government security’ holdings and $70,000,000 m bibs bought m the open market, while “other reserve bank credit” declined $31.000.000. Discounts for the system exceeded $1.000 000,000 for the first time since September 4. 1929.
This year-end factor w-as particularly noticable in the New York district where discounts rose $195,000,000, bills bought SS5.000 000 and government securities $35 000.000. The ratio of the New York bank suffered a severe drop, as a result, falling to 52 8' r lrom 66 4' <■. These changes may be considered purely’ temporary in character, however, despite the unusual size of the r-edit expansion and the boi rowing of member bank* It is natural unaci the uieumstance« that local banks, whose borrowing* have been negligible throughout the year, should make particular efforts to present strong year-end statements, wrmh explains their heavy’ discounting and disposal of acceptance*’. La^t year, local banks actually’ cut down their borrowings. while this year they increased them t-» $289 000 000 from $98.000 000 last week and from nothing the week before
Investments of local banks dropped $100000.000. of which $06 000 000 were government* Security loan* were higher despite a new Ioa level for their broket*-’ loans while ’all other’ loans advanced, dcspbr n'dut cd holding* of b.ils Net demand deposits were $j5.000.0ou higher on the week.
Total of money in circulation showed a drop of $100,000,000 during the week, compared with a decline of $125,000,000 In the same week a y ear ago.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.