Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 12, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
By Richard E. Edmondson
Stocks yesterday engaged in broadest demonstration of strength witnessed since announcement of the National Credit Corp, early last October. Urgent demand poured into the principal snares under the stimulus of the administration's program .for an unhampered credit expansion policy through broadening the eligibility provisions of the Federal Reserve.
New bill to accomplish this purpose was regarded as the most constructive piece of legislation introduced into Congress for many years, and stocks responded with sweeping advances^ Impetus was given the buying movement by news that Ford Motors Co. would be in production on its new eight-cylinder car before the close of February.
Particular importance was attached to the view of Mr. Ford that he considers the present time opportune for the introduction of new models since he feels the public is in a buying mood. As the delay in the Ford activities has been exercising a restraining influence, not only on the remainder of the automobile industry, but on steel, and other related lines, preparations by the Ford company to speed up production were regarded as the most invigorating trade developments m several months.
In official Washington circles, the belief was expressed that enactment of the proposed revisions in the banking law would have a helpful effect on both security and commodity prices. This opinion evidently was shared by the country at large, and cotton, wheat and corn participated with stocks In a general upward movement.	*
Union Pacific Advances Sharply
Following a buoyant opening, buying ac-tivties gradually picked up momentum during the first hour. Trading expanded to large proportions, taxing the ticker facilities to such an extent that the tape lost ground until it was running three minutes behind actual tions.
While the trading pace slackened in the late morning, persistent demand continued m evidence for the principal stocks on the slightest recessions. Another buying wave swept over the general list around noon in the wake of a spirited uprush in Union Pacific on announcement that the existing $10 dividend rate had been maintained
Extensive short lines had been put out in Union Pacific on reports of the possibility of a dividend reduction Active covering was set :n motion by news of the unchanged basis, and the stock run up nearly S points from the previous final
With Union Pacific supplying stirring leadership. new highs on the movement were reached by Atchison. New York Central, and other outstanding members of the earner group. Profit taking attracted by the substantial character ct the earlier gains caused periods of hesitation in the afternoon
But realizing sales were absorbed in impressive fashion, and the day’s best levels were leached during the last hour. Steel was a feature of pronounced strength in the nnal ccahngr. pushing upward on the outlook for increasing steel orders from the motor industry
President’s Political Stature Gr<m»
V all Street was virtually unanimous in the belief th.it recent developments in the administration’*) program to start business rrmcry had nuitermlly enhanced President Hoover’s chances for reelection Financial and industrial leaders, who hate been working on relief measures with Mr. Hoover in Washington, report that the nation’s chief executive has grown in stature under the burden of economic difficult ics hr has been carrying the last two i rar*
Tiicv say that hr has improved in health, and gne him important credit in the evolution of the Reconstruction Finance Corp, and other plans devised to restore public confidence. On a basis of the belief that the present campaign of the udm.nist ration holds forth greater promise of trade stimulation than anything the Democrats may be able to work out, prospects are felt to be better that Mr. Hoover will i»e returned to office in the national elections next November.
Recent Technical Action Significant
Development of pronounced strength m the principal stocks occasioned no surprise to people who hac! been favorably impressed by the recent technical action of the market. It was obv.ouj’lv no! accidental that the industrial and
railroad averages had shown such stubborn resistance for the last several sessions, slightly above the low’s of January 5.
This support reflected the accumulation of important interests, who had been planning for some time to pour huge sums of money into the market when pivotal shares again became available around the early January lows. As it turned out, this buying was based on definite reasons.
It evidently reflected optimism concerning the market influence of announcement regarding the measures to broaden the eligibility provisions of the Federal Reserve Act. Since the constructive effects of such a program were clearly discernible to bankers cognizant of the situation, the news from Washington provided ample explanation for the recent impressive support accorded pivotal shares.
Banking Position Greatly Strengthened Probably the most important influence in Wall Street’s favorable reaction to the Wash-’ ington developments was the belief That more 1 liberal rediscounting privileges would constitute • the most constructive steps yet taken to restore ' confidence in the nation's banking structure., Broadening of the eligibility provisions of the . Federal Reserve Act will be more he.pful than! the operations of the Reconstruction Finance 1 Corp., since many banks would fear the effect on their depositors of an appeal to the corporation for financial assistance.
Under the new Federal Reserve bill, many institutions hampered by a dearth of liquid resources will be able to rectify this situation by utilizing for temporary discounting paper not J now available for such purposes. When de-, positors realize that their funds are readily I obtainable on demand, hoarding is expected to • cease, and a practical guarantee will be afforded that the country will not witness a repetition of wholesale ’’runs” on the banks.
French Withdrawals Continue
In the week ended February’ 5, the Bank of France made a further reduction of fr 700 -000.000 in its balances abroad and showed an increase of fr. 900.000.000 in gold holdings. The ’ latter at a total of fr. 72.563,000,000 were at a ' new High record.
Foreign balances were thus reduced about S2S.000.000. while gold increased about $36 000 -000, of which S13.000.000 came from London. Both circulation and deposits were somewhat lower, resulting in a rise in the rat.o to a new record at 65.25'“,.
Funds abroad have been reduced about S135,-000.000 since December 26. leaving about $672,000,000 to be withdrawn. The new Federal Reserve bill gives absolute assurance, by providing a larger supply of ’ free’’ gold, that these bal- , ances can be repatriated, entirely in gold if need be. without harm."
The Bank of England showed a further' strengthening of its position. Although bullion holdings W’ere a shade lower, circulation dropped more than £1.000 000 and deposits by about £11.000 000 The ratio of reserves to deposit liabilities increased to 42$'^ from 3S 9rr. Government security holdings dropped £6 000 COO. and other securities almost £4.000,000 in reflection -' of easier conditions on the London monev market.	’
Kreuger &• Toll Co
Kreuger & Toll Co. could realize a sub' stantial profit on the Boliden gold mine trans, action were the company to exercise its option ‘ to repurchase the 4,041 667 participating deben-, tures exchanged for the S0r, interest in the | mine. At the time of issuing the debentures, , their market value was approximately $2 each less than the present price sn that 'its profit ' today amounts to about $S 000 000.
i The option gives Kreuger the privilege to repurchase the debentures for cash at a specified price, understood to be c-j®t. at anv time before the end of 1934 In issuing the 'debentures, the company avo.acd tne necessity of a heavy cash outlay under present unsettled con' ditlons without sacrificing the possibility of : making the purchase out of its own funds , should world conditions improve.
; Kreuger expects the revenues of the mining
1 properties, other than those received from gold. Ito be sufficient to meet all mining expenses^ leaving as gross profit an average monthly vield I of about $667,000 from the gold mining'operations. With the new issue of debentures having a current market value of approximately $29 -000.000. the gross annual return from the company's investment, figured on this basis, would be more than 23',.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.