Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 9, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
'Ey Richard E. Edmondson
With Wall Street looking forward to important developments of a constructive character. stocks again gave an excellent account of themselves in yesterday’s session. Optimism regarding the outlook for sustained improvement in the share list was increased by the way the market handled itself during a period of technical correction in the morning hours.
Profit-taking attracted by the extensive character of the recent gains was absorbed with only moderate setbacks from the best levels of the movement. Offerings lightened in volume on these recessions, and pivotal shares maintained a confident tone in a narrow price range.
In view of the fact that the market had enjoyed two consecutive sessions of substantial gains for the first time in two months, this performance made a particularly favorable impression. It created growing nervousness among the shorts, who were already in an apprehensive state over the probable Influence of the passage of the Reconstruction Finance Corp, bill, as well as the recent indications of a pronounced scarcity in the floating supply erf standard stocks.
Having demonstrated its ability to take care of active realizing sales without disturbance, the market resumed the upswing on a broad front during the afternoon. Buying of the rails was stimulated by news of the acceptance of a 20% wage reduction by 4.500 mechanical employes of New York. New Haven & Hartford. New Haven spurted briskly on this announcement, while New York Central. Atchison and other leaders of the carrier division rose to the best levels of the current advance.
Steel Preferred Advances Sharply
Indications of reviving confidence in investment quarters were given by a sharp advance in Steel preferred, which substantially extended its progress into new high territory on the recovery. Accumulation recently in evidence in Steel common for the account of powerful banking interests became more aggressive, and Steel pushed into new high ground on the movement on transactions in large blocks.
Expectations of higher prices for the red metal were entertained by the copper industry and the outlook in this respect was translated into spirited buying of American Smelting Anaconda. and Kcnnecott. Various specialties displayed pronounced buoyancy, with Auburn again prominent for its volatility.
American Ice was extremely active on the upside, reflecting buying by interests whose operations previously had been confined to the short side for the past 18 months With bonds maintaining impressive strength, advancing tendencies in the main body of stocks picked up momentum as the session progressed, and the day’s best levels were reached in the late afternoon.
Professional Attitude More Bullish Bullish sentiment has derived no little encouragement recently from n change in attitude on part of prominent professional operators who furnished leadership on selling movements over the last two years One of the outstanding figures on the downside during 1920-31 expresses a moderate degree of optimism that contrasts strikingly with his pronounced pessimism" regarding economic prospects since mid-summer 1929.
Another active member of this group now feels that the lino of least resistance favors the side of rising prices. He has covered his short commitments, and is participating in bullish demonstrations in selected stocks. An issue which has born favored by his buying is Montgomery Ward.
Montgomery Ward
People who have been accumulating Montgomery Ward in the last several sessions have regarded unfavorably the revival of reports thfct negotiations will be reopened for a merger with Sears-Roebuck. They say that no such project is contemplated, and that their buying has been based on the company’s plans to discontinue unprofitable retail stores. It is felt that steps of this nature will bring about a substantial reduction in overhead, and greatly' improve the earnings outlook for 1932
New Haven Action Favorable
Voluntary* acceptance ot a 10*,wage cut by the mechanical employes of the New Haven gave added belief that a 10% pay’ reduction would be agreed on at the conference between the earners and the labor officials on January 14 Despite the fact that the New Haven employees who took the reduction are not membeis of the shopmen s union, it is pointed out that this move is significant as to the probable out
come of the national conference in that no head of a company union would allow himself to lose prestige by taking lower pay unless he felt practically sure that the national organizations also planned to take the same cut.
Bulls Await Signal From Rails
Owing to the particularly favorable action of the rails in the last several sessions, interests inclined to take a bullish attitude are awaiting further developments in this department for a clue to the immediate outlook for the market. They feel that if any group of stocks is open to extensions of the recent gnins it should be the rails in view of the outlook that the wage negotiations scheduled for mid-January are likely to produce general reductions averaging 10%.
Moreover, the adoption by’ Congress of the Reconstruction Finance Corp, program would be especially helpful to railroad companies, strengthening the position of roads troubled by difficulties as to meeting fixed charges, and tax pay’monts. It is argued, therefore, that if the market generally is ready to respond to pending measures of a constructive character, the latter should find their most forceful reflection in carrier stocks.
From a technical standpoint, the present position of the rails makes their immediate price movement* extremely significant. On January 5, the carrier issues used in the Dow-Jones averages dipped to 31.36. compared with the previous resistance figure of 31 42 on December 17. thereby establishing a temporary double bottom. In doing so, the rails refused to confirm the bearish signal given by the substantial penetration of the December 17 resistance levels on part of pivotal Industrials
Carrier Shares Stage Rally
Since the rails encountered support on January 3. they’ have broken away from the immediate danger zone, rallying to 86.83 at yesterday’s close This level represented recapture of 22% of the preceding downward movement from 55.60 on November 10 to 81.86 on January 5. Further progress on the upstdo of several points In the carrier average at this time would convey bullish implications
It would suggest that liquidation immediately overhanging tin* principal rails had been absorbed. and indicate that stocks of this class wore headed for an intermediate recovery that would retrace about of the preceding decline. A movement of such proportions would carry the Dow-Jones rail compilation to around the 48-Ie\cl.
Rails have furnished leadership for the genera! market over the last two years. If the carrier group pr<»v<s able to penetrate recent resistance levels on the upside, it is felt that Industrials would quickly swing into line. Pivotal industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages dropped from 116.79 on November 9 to 71 2-1 on January 5 An intermediate re« ox erv of t!w kind seen nt several stages of the 1924-31 major decline would curry the industrial compilation to around 93
Banks Inerease liquidity’
To draw :irv definite rondurmns from bank ntatemenk. icounu the yvai-end would be the heigh’ ot f ilty es-vcially when seme of the figures have been subject to *urh wide fluctuations as recently. Fo’* example, in the week ended Decenihe’* 30 member bank reserve balances inrrcas‘’d 3322 (>00.000, only to drop S2S<»-000.OOP tnis past week
Adjusting these figures to show’ trend, it would appear that there has beer, some cessation of the drastic deflation of fink credit that went on through October and November, which is an encouraging s.ign. Also, the reduction of member banks’ borrowings from th»' Federal, amounting to S20»‘> 000 000 this past week, is much larger than m other recent years Coun-tei balancing these slightly encouraging indications is the unscasonal increase of $2t,000,000 in currencv circulation
New York City banks turned heavy sellers of non-goi ornment securities last week their total holdings i-f ’all other mvLbtnv'ntb claiming $98,000,000 to S845.u00.000 They also liquidated $72 OOO.OO'i of security loans
This leaves <he New Yo-k banks jr. an cx-trcmelv strong position. with nearly 50 , of their demand d< posits m th»* fo’in of cash reserves v ith tn*’ Fedot.i. ‘.nd govi’iimcr.l securities If broitets’ loans .ire included m these quick assv’ items, the i becomes $2 98100')000 against detn	(•< pt’ uts of $3 1	000.000
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.