The Markets: Stocks Rally on Favorable Turn in Developments at ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 7, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Stocks Bally on Favorable Turn in
Gains in Wheat, Cotton
London market firm; German bonds up sharply; Japanese issues higher.
Parts bourse firm throughout.
A. decidedly favorable turn In developments at Lausanne, where indications are that a settlement of reparations will be reached within the next few days, coupled with sharp improvement in wheat and cotton, and higher prices for bonds, resulted In drastic betterment in nrices on the New York Stock Exchange.
Wheat prices advanced 1% cents to 1"& cents a bushel, while cotton scored a gain of $1.50 a bale, the sharpest in many months. Other grains, such as corn, oats and rye participated in the upward trend in commodities. In the bond market, foreign government issues were particularly strong while domestic debts registered small gains.
The German delegates at the Lausanne conference have consented to make a final payment of reparations, as against their previous flat refusal to pay anything. A compromise is also evident in the British acceptance of the idea of such a payment, and indications are that a settlement will be reached within a few days.
Foreign Buying Reported
The turn at Lausanne has brought out con- : siderablc foreign buying of American stocks in recent sessions, and several prominent Ex- 1 change firms with connections abroad have been ' handling a substantial volume of this business. American Telephone struck a new low price of 73, but subsequently recovered sharply. Inter- ' national Shoe, which had given indications of being ••pegged” around the 32-level, broke badly and hit a new low of 26 where it showed a loss 1 of 6 points on the day. It regained a point be- t fore the close, however.	J
Gold mining and oil shares were conspicu- J ously strong, the latter on improvement m the j statistical situation in the industry.	;
Motor Makers Concentrate on Low-Priced Cars
Shares of principal automobile manutactur-ers have been holding fairly well in recent sessions. On the whole, such shares have been quoted at less than S10, with Auburn the exception. Of the principal companies listed on the 1 New York Stock Exchange, four reported profits in the first quarter, while the remainder had deficits.
With the major buying of automobiles based < on down-right utility and performance as con; trasted with pre-depression buying on display, ; these companies arc giving attention to prod’ ucts that will meet present needs.
persistent reports cars will appear, while others arc designing stage.
Hudson Motor the introduction of this _ _ coming ofC the assembly line and are scheduled for introduction within a month. Hudson-Essex distributors from all parts of the country have been attending meetings at the plant during the
There arc that several new liw-priced One already is in production either m the engineering or
Car Co. will take the lead in type. The cars are
Developments at Lausanne—Sharp and Bonds -Llso Benefit
past week and were given demonstrations in the new cars. The company officials will not comment on their new line but indicate that it will be in the lowest price field.
Statistical Position of OU Improves
The improvement in. the statistical position of the oil industry in recent months and prospects of an agreement among the world's principal producers and marketers is being partly reflected in prices of securities of leading companies.
The decline in crude oil output last week to 2,098,514 barrels daily marked the lowest average for any week in more than five years, excepting a brief period in January. 1931, when it averaged 2,082,000 barrels, and a few weeks in August and September, of that year when the Oklahoma and East Texas fields were closed under martial law. In the latter period production averaged a low of 1,751,550 barrels in the week ended August 29, 1931.
While gasoline consumption this year has been running slightly behind last year, the available stocks on hand show a reduction compared with last year of approximately 3,000,000 barrels. In the week ended June 25 gasoline stocks amounted to 38,913,000 barrels, a drop of 2,349.000 as compared with a week previously, and compared with 41,868,000 barrels a year ago.
Baltimore & Ohio Features Strength
Among low-priced carrier shares. Baltimore & Ohio has been outstanding for its strength, offerings being absorbed readily. The stock advanced lGr£. to	on Tuesday, and scored
a further gain on Wednesday.
From the standpoint of operating results, it i<? estimated that the road will report a deficit of approximately 84,500.000 m the first six months of this year However, it is likely that this loss will be made up in the final half, with indications that the company will cover its charges for 1932. Aiding operations in the current period will be reductions in maintenance outlay, in that the road has ample good-car equipment and its roadbed is in satisfactory condition for safe operation.
Baltimore & Ohio should have no difficulty in meeting its charges or other requirements through to March, 1933. when a bond issue of 863,000 000 matures.
Another influence upon the shares is the expected early decision by the Interstate Commerce Commission on the application of trunk hues that there be four such systems in the East instead of five as prescribed m the Commission's original order. In this way the Commission s proposed Wabash-Seaboard system would be eliminated and the trunk lines would be allowed to proceed with their previously formulated plans.
B.	& O . under the four-party plan, would be in a position to round out its system and effect the shortest route between Chicago and New York. The plan also would enable the road to bring about substantial economies m operation, purchases, etc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.