Abreast of the Market
Edmondson, Richard E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 7, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Some of the alarm recently characterizing financial sentiment was dissipated yesterday by a more favorable turn of events at Washington. As Wall Street had been exepcting a headlong flight from the dollar in the event that Congress adopted bonus legislation in the present session, reassurance was supplied by overnight news telling of word received by President Hoover from National Commander Stevens, of the American Legion, that the latter organization stood squarely behind him in opposition to further bonus payments at this time.
Senator Harrison, ranking Democrat on the finance committee, announced he would vote against the measure. This stand was counted Upon to assure an unfavorable Senate report on any bonus action taken by the House.
However, the principal stocks during the early dealings continued under the influence of the urgent pressure that had weighed prices down in Tuesday’s late trading. With the industrial, railroad and utility sections of the market substantially in new low territory for the major decline, further forced liquidation was necessitated, and extensions of the downward movement took place throughout the list. Steel common penetrated Its previous 1932 resistance level of 35%, while American Telephone reached a further new low since 1921.
But this fresh outburst of selling was checked as the first hour progressed by announcement from Washington that Secretary of Treasury Mills had appeared before the Senate Finance Committee in opposition to the proposed stock transfer tax, the tax on dividends, and the high corporation income tax. Secretary Mills’ stand caused a more hopeful feeling in Wall Street, and rallying tendencies developed in pivotal shares.
Renewed Pressure on Steel
Improvement in the main body of stocks was aided by an upturn in wheat prices, which advanced about a cent a bushel after displaying a heavy tone at the opening. Wheat’s favorable performance was influenced by hot, dry weather in thq Southwest, 'accompanied by dust storms. However, the share list was unsettled by renewed selling in the late afternoon. Steel common was again in large supply, yielding its recovery from the morning low, and breaking to a further new low for the year. While the rails continued to display somewhat bettor resistance to declining tendencies, the market was generally unsettled in the final dealings.
. Mills Opposes Stock Tax
Secretary of the Treasury, as first witness before the Senate Finance Committee on the pending revenue bill, brought out strikingly the undesirability of the proposed tax of % of 1% on stock transfers, as an untried experiment which is of at least doubtful wisdom in a time of depression. Mr. Mills pointed out the probably curtailment of legitimate and necessary activity in the securities markets, and further emphasized the doubt which exists os to the legality of the proposed extra-territorial levy on transactions executed in London or Canada by operators from New York. Mr. Mills was extremely conservative in his opposition to such a tax of questionable morit as a producer of revenue but of unlimited ability to arouse doubt and promote* disorganization in finance and business.
Technical Conditions Stronger
Having broken decisively through previous resistance levels, the industrials gave confirmation to the recent bearish action of the rails, indicating that the deflationary movement in progress since September, 1929, had entered Its seventh phase. In the six preceding stages, the railroad and industrial groups lost an average of roughly 40% of their market values.
When the current decline started, industrials Used in the Dow-Jones averages stood at 88.78. and rails at 41.30. At Tuesday’s close, industrials had lost 23.3%. and rails 37.4%. In the case of the industrials, a downward movement of 40% would carry the average to around the 33 lovcl.
However, the precedent established in major declines of the past has shown that price swing* experience a tendency to flatten out as the ultimate low points arc approached. In view of the fact that the present deflation has been running for more than 31 months, experienced students feel that an extremely pessimistic attitude is unwarranted at this time.
In the final stages of the post-war decline In 1921. railroad stocks dropped only 3.4% below their previous resistance level before the final bottom was established. For the industrials. the closing break of the downswing carried them only one point in the Dow-Jones average below their preceding support level.
Moreover, it is felt that the market’s present technical position has been strengthened by a marked increase in short selling during the last several sessions. Outright liquidation undoubtedly has been chiefly responsible for the accelerated pace of the decline since the start of this week. But speculators for the decline have become bolder as premiums in the loan crowd have diminished. This increase in the short interest is believed to have placed the market in a situation from which a sharp rally might ensue on favorable outside developments.
Tax Uncertainty Hurts Trude
Car loadings on the country’s railroads during the week ended March 26 were distinctly
poor, the decline from a year ago being 24.0%, the largest reported so far in 1932.
Individual loading reports for the week ended April 2 indicate a continuation of this downtrend in traffic. Loadings of the New York Central for the week ended April 2 were 30.4% below the corresponding period of last year, while in the seven days ended March 26 they were 29.4% under the like week of 1931.
The continuing decline in Central’s loadings Is made more evident when it is recalled that Good Friday fell In the week ended March 26 this year and a week later in 1931.
In transportation circles the sharp falling oft in trafffic in the weeks ended March 26 and April 2 is ascribed to uncertainty over the new revenue program in Congress. It is pointed out that thiB factor has caused widespread hesitancy among business men who have cancelled many orders already placed and deferred commitments they might have made. When the Washington situation begins to clear up it is felt there will be an immediate improvement In sentiment and business activity.
Steel Upturn Meets Further Rebuff
Mid-week rcvlcwB of the steel industry offered little encouragement, with Ingot production barely bolding Its own at 22%. While conditions seem to favor some rise in steel production this month, the orders which are being depended upon to bring about such improvement have been delayed. Particularly in automotive and railroad buying has demand been disappointing. After repeated delays, it now seems likely that Ford cannot get into volume production before May 1, which means another setback in the hopes of steel producers that his steel business will soon be placed.
Steel operations gained slightly at Cleveland, but receded at Pittsburgh and Youngstown. Despite the apparent inability of buying requirements to lift operations above present low levels, steel men have not given up hope that some measure of seasonal improvement Is yet to come before the usual receding trend of summer sets in.
Llbbey-Owens-Ford
Libbey-Owens-Ford shipments of safety glass for the first quarter of 1932 were more than double those made during the corresponding 1931 period. The actual increase was 109%. This reflects the greatly increased public demand for safety glass and is doubly significant in view of the fact that during this same period automobile production was substantially less than during the corresponding quarter of last year.
According to company officials the record shipments during, the first quarter of 1932 do not Include any portion of the large order recently received from Ford Motor Co. as a result of the latter's decision to make safety plate glass standard equipment throughout all deluxe models. Shipments on the Ford orders are just commencing.
The company furnishes all of General Motors glass requirements under a contract made last year. Important contracts from other motor manufacturers are also held by the company. Libbey-Owcns-Ford Increased production this week at its East Toledo and Rossford plants following the removal of uncertainty in the automobile Industry as to prices and new models.
Speculation's Economic Senice
"The proposed tax of % of 1% on sales of stocks,*’ say Wrenn Bros. & Co., "presents a serious and complicated problem, not only to members of the stock exchange, but, far more important, to the financial system of the whole country.
"The purpose of the tax Is, of course, to provide revenue for the vitally important balancing of the budget. If it will effectively serve that purpose without retarding an eventual recovery In business, the burden which it places on one clement of the community becomes a minor consideration. But. it is apparent to anyone dealing In securities that the tax will, to a great extent, defeat its own purpose. The added cost of making transactions, which will be almost double that nt present, will largely eliminate the type of trading which creates un active and fair market in stocks, and prevents wide spreads between the bid and asked price. The size of the tax can be compared to a $400 tax on a $500 automobile. It would be more than 16 times greater on an average than the tax on real estate brokerage. No business can survive against such discrimination.
"The most important economic service which speculation renders Is the creation of an active market. Changing developments and changing upiniuiis cause a constant fluctuation in the establishment of price In stocks, bonds and commodities. The fairest market—that is one in which the dally fluctuations of price are least violent—is found where the activity is greatest.
“An example of the effect of eliminating active speculation was given in Germany in 1896. The Reichstag, then in the control of the Agrarian Party, passed a bill restricting speculation. The result of the law, which was in force twelve years, was that German speculators put a large amount of their transactions through the exchanges of Amsterdam, Paris. London. By 1908 the business of the Berlin Exchange had shrunk to a small fraction of its former size. The result was anything but a fair market In Berlin, and the complaints from Industry were equal to the complaints of those whose business was more closely related to the exchanges."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.