Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 15, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
By 'Richard E. Edmondson
Stimulated toy prospects of ‘speedy enactment of the new Federal Reserve bill, stocks swept upward in an extremely active market during1 the brief session sandwiched between Lincoln’s Birthday and the week-end. Any fears regarding unregulated inflation were eliminated by developments over the holiday, and reports from throughout the nation told of an enthusiastic response to the proposed revision of the banking laws.
This feeling was translated into urgent demand for representative snares. Buying orders > poured into Wall Street from every part of the I country, and the whole market pushed into new I high ground on the recovery’, with transactions : in large blocks characterizing the dealings. I
Trading steadily picked up volume as the I first hour progressed, causing the tape to lose ground until it was running four minutes behind the actual market. Although extensive profit-taking appeared toward 11 o’clock, realizing sales were absorbed without difficulty, and failed to create the slightest disturbance.
Another wave of buying developed at the start of the final hour, and the earlier gams were extended on a broad front. Shorts were thrown into demoralized retreat by the sustained nature of the demand, and urgent covering imparted impetus to the upward movement.
Wall Street was unanimous in the thought that the contemplated changes in the eligibility provisions of the Federal Reserve Art would quickly check banking failures and relieve frozen assets. With this accomplished, assurance would be provided that no further deflation would result from necessitous liquidation. As the latter factor had resulted m depressing security values to unwarranted extremes, the promise of relief from this pressure readily accounted for the aggressive rebounds in representative stocks.
Sustained Advance in Stocks Anticipated
Following the substantial recoveries from the mid-week lows, the principal stocks appeared m line for the most sustained advance enjoyed since the npiwing from October 5 to November 9, 1931. Latter movement, which was , set in motion by formation of the National Credit Corp . to stabilize banking conditions, carried industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages from 86 48 to 116 79
From a technical standpoint, the outlook for further progress on the upside in coming weeks was strengthened by the impressive resistance , recently put forth by pivotal shares to the in-(fluences which threatened to force them below’ the resistance levels of early January. At last Wednesday’s close, industrials used m the Dow-Jones averages stood nt 71.80. against the ^January 5 closing figure of 71.24 This situn-; tion established a double bottom of considerable 1 significance in view of the additional declines ' m commodity prices, and the extreme discouragement regarding trade prospects that existed , while the ability of the market to Withstand pressure at cruc lai levels hung in the balance
, In the case of the rails, the recent technical performance was even more impressive On January 5. the carrier shares had set up a double bottom at 31 36. compared with the previous low of 31 42 on December 27 Although beset by continued reductions m car loadings*, tiie principal rails made a stand more than a I point above this duplicated resistance figure, closing nt 32 76 last Wednesday when the dan-
I ger confronting the general market's position ( was most acute.
| Of course, it is never possible to determine ; the final bottom of a major decline until after [the event because of the complicated economic [factors prevailing when a prolonged deflationary movement is approaching completion But pres-1 ent indications arc that the resistance estab-L lished last Wednesday will be difficult to b**enk down, particularly in view of the extensively liquidated status of the market, and the powerful forces non working for business revival
I	Trade Prospects Greatly Improved
! Unquestionably. the factor holding f »rt h the greatest promise for immediate improvement in the major branches of trade is the new Fed-
eral Reserve bill, which will remove the most formidable obstacles to economic recovery. Forced to keep on hand an adequate supply of eligible paper to meet possible demands from depositors, banks have been unable to inject sufficient credit into trade channels to supply the stimulus needed for accelerated commercial activity.
Moreover, the prevailing psychology of fear has prevented business men from making plans for renewed enterprise. With the eligibility provisions of the Federal Reserve Act broadened, however, the banks will be assured fan abundant' supply of credit resources. Public confidence should be quickly restored by this situation, and the business man exploded out of his stagnant attitude.
No situation has given greater concern than the status of the banks in smaller cities where the scarcity of eligible paper was most pronounced When the proposed changes m the banking law are enacted, the interior banks almost immediately will have placed at their disposal the additional facilities needed to satisfy all requirements. What is even more important is the fact that the confidence of depositors m these institutions will be restored so that the banks may have to make little use of the fresh credit resources.
This prospect is counted upon to be specially helpful in creating optimistic sentiment, and awakening general business activity. As fiiat-j tors now stand, the chances are excellent that ; trade improvement in the srpring months will ] exceed the normal seasonal proportions, whereas only a few days ago doubts were entertained regarding the possibility of ariV worthwhile up-I turn.
i Psychologically, the recently existing status was exactly opposite to that prevailing m the corresponing period, both in 1931 and m 1930. In the two previous years, the market was influenced by wholly illusionary hopes of business improvement m the spring months.
Upturns in the share list on optimism in this respect heightened the severity of subsequent declines. At present, the market is additionally fortified by the fact that expectations regarding seasonal trade prospects have been so limited. As a result, the invigorating effects on the stock market of any gratifying improvement appear likely to be strongly pronounced.
New York Central
Report of New York Central for 1931. showing net income of $2,430,101 equal to 49 cents a share on the stock, was better than had been anticipated and resulted in a further advance in the stock, which has been a leader m the rally.
Recent reports from Central have been more encouraging. Loadings have shown a better trend, with the weck-to-week comparison showing improvement. For the week ended February 6. loadings were off JS.9'~f. from the like 2931 week, compared with 20 5*"^ for the week ended January 30 and 22..2 , for the week ended January 23.
1 Central s showing this year should be benefited substantially by the surcharges granted by the Interstate Commerce Commission to furnish funds for the Railroad Credit Corp., the Eastern Class rate increases which went into , effect late last year, and the 10rr wage rcduc-lion. Estimates are that the surcharges should yield the road $13,000,000. the class rate increases $6,000 000. on the basis *->f 2931 traffic.
1 and the wage reduction should cut the 1932 ' wage bill about $17,000,000 below the 1931 figure.
ReconM ruction Attitude on Dividends
The Reconstruction Finance Corp, has adopted no rule which would force borrowers from it to omit dividends. Obx ,nusly, such a rule would exclude a majority of ranks the coxpora-, tmn w.shes to aid Every app.iration for a loan will be considered on its md.v dual merits, efI ficials declare. The report that the Pcnsyl-! vama Ra.iroad would be f> -ctd to on»it dividends on its stock if it obtained Ioans for continuance of its electnficati-n program was unfounded.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.