The Markets: Stocks Higher on Indicated Early Congressional ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jul 16, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
Stocks Higher on Indicated Early C ongressional 'Adjournment—Commodities Advance—Carrier Shares Rise Stiarply
London market Irregular; British and German bonds lower; shares irregular.
Several favorable developments, Including an improvement in the banking situation and price advances in basic commodities, contributed toward material betterment in pjices on the New York Stock Exchange. Trading volume, however, ran considerably behind that in the preceding session.
As a group, carrier shares were outstanding for sharp advances, in line with improvement in bonds, and the possibility of an early decision on the four-party eastern trunk line consolidation plan. Substantial gains were marked up by Atchison, New York Central, Union Pacific and Chesapeake & Ohio.
The weekly statements of the Federal Reserve banks were reassuring, and featured a reduction of 561,000,000 In circulation, expansion in member bank reserve balances and an Increase of 510,000,000 in monetary gold stock. The American dollar also appreciated in relation to foreign currencies, with particular weakness in French francs.
The improvement in prices of major commodities extended to wheat, cotton, corn and hogs. Bond prices trended irregularly, with U. S. governments inclined to softness. Domestic corporation and rail bonds, however, reflected improvement.
Prospective Congressional Adjournment Factor
Prospects of early adjournment of Congress also contributed to improvement m prices. The only important legislation still to be considered at the nation's Capitol is the Relief bill. Although a deadlock has arisen over the measure. with respect to the publicity feature on Reconstruction Finance Corp, loans, a compromise probably will be arrived at fairly promptly.
The Home Loan bank bill also is before Congress. but the House and Senate conferees are deadlocked on this and its chances of passing through the present session are slim because of the House inclusion therein of the Goldsborough price stabilization measure.
Circulating Money Reduced $61,000,000
Those who have been watching banking figures with apprehenston over the past several weeks can find much of a reassuring nature in this week's reports. The $61,000,000 decline in currency circulation, $52,000,000 expansion In member bank reserve balances, $10,000,000 increase in gold holdings and upturn Ln Chicago demand deposits are all extremely encouraging indications that the worst features of preceding reports had in part been due to June 20 and July 4 temporary demands
It will be interesting to watch the results of Federal Reserve policy during the next several weeks now that some of the outside factors such as unsettling Congressional proposals and the great gold export movement have ceased to nullify Reserve bank efforts to expand credit Thi-> past week the Reserve banks purchased $20,000,000 of government securities—not a large amount in itself, but when added to the $61,000,000 released by currency return and the $10,000,000 gain in gold, of considerable magnitude. It had the direct effect of increasing excess reserve balances sharply at both Chicago and New York. The vehicle for putting some of these excess reserves effectively to work through the so-called bond pool under J. T*. Morgan & Co management is now in active operation, as indicated by the $10,000,000 call made to participants this week
While it is true that recently there has been a contraction of outstanding credits extended
by New York City banks, amounting to $143,000,000 in the past two weeks, it should be pointed out that such a decline is not unusual at this time of year and. In fact, was considerably smaller than in the first two weeks of July in 1927, 1928 and 1931. It is worth noting that ‘’all other” loans increased $39,000,000 in New York last week and $4,000,000 in Chicago.
Patent Agreement to Aid Foster Wheeler Formation of the Petroleum Distillation Corp, by the Standard OH Companies of Indiana and New Jersey, Atlantic Refining Co. and Foster Wheeler Corp, for the purpose of licensing rights under the oil distillation patents of these companies should prove of material benefit to Foster Wheeler Corp. The latter has been named the agent for granting licenses under the patents, and should derive a substantial volume of manufacturing business from its association. Besides bringing together patents which are more or less complementary, the step Is considered as one of the most important in the oil industry in many years. ’
During the last few years older methods of oil distillation have been largely replaced by new and more scientific processes. The companies in the Petroleum Distillation Corp, have been leaders in the development of tHtese new inventions and for some time have been in negotiation to arrive at a satisfactory basis under which each could use the complementary inventions of the others. Experience of the companies shows considerably reduced investment costs and appreciable savings in fuel, labor and repair costs by the use of pipe stills embodying all of their important inventions. The intention of the new corporation is to make all their inventions available to all* refiners on a uniform basis.
Foster Wheeler’s operations in the current year have been on a curtailed basis, in-line with industry generally, and results for the first half probably will show a loss. Currently it has a backlog of unfilled business approximating $3,500,000, or about $1,000,000 less than at the end of 1931. A considerable part of the current business has been for oil refinery equipment and numerous inquiries are pending for k additional such machinery.
Gillette Improve* on Earnings and Finances
Both preferred and common shares of Gillette Snfrty Razor Co. performed better on publication of earnings for the first half showing net equal to $1.25 a share on no-par common as against 95 cents in the corresponding period a year previous. Currently Gillette’s operations arc holding well and it is deriving substantial benefit from its new ••blue” blade.
An outstanding feature of its financial statement was the gain of $1,476,656 to $9,424,84 S I in cash and marketable securities in the last . three months. This cash position has an added 1 significance with respect to dividend. The company, at the peak of its operations, was able to handle its volume of business with working capital of aproximatcly $3,000,000. so that part of this huge excess could be used to increase the rate of dividend payments. Disbursement® of 25 cents each were ordered in the past tu o quarters, and first half earnings, alone, were • 150", in excess of the payments.
Aside from these considerations. Gillette has been bettering the position of stockholders by the constant, gradual retirement ot funded debt. 'During the June quarter it purchased 4651.000 I of its debentures, reducing the outstanding issue to $10,780.0000 from the original offering of $30,000,000 m 1930.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.