RISING OPTIMISM FEATURES WEEK: SIX MONTHS' REPORTS BETTER THAN ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 1, 1932; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal P.S-2
RISING OPTIMISM
FEATURES WEEK
Six Months’ Reports Better .Than Expected—Brokers Much Happier
The. Week Reviewed
	Week's Active Stocks			
Sales	Stock:	Hiffh	Low	Last Chgs. 39’-.— 5
300100	Amer Can . . .	. 40l-»	34 a*	
314400	Am Tel & Tel.	• 90 iH	77’r	89a* — 12*1
202200	Case, JI . . . .	- 32'-x	26 U	3ji	4*h
158400	Cons Gas . ...	. 47’-	39 U	
206700	Cons Oil		. S’-M	6**	61- -T-	1
216292	Gen Elect ...	. 14 ’	11 U	14 1 - 4- 31.
178800	Gen Motors . .	. 11 u	8's	11»<^	2’j.
116800	N Y Central .	.	1$:k	13	17*K-^ 4
149100	Stan Oil N J .	. 301 .	2?a*	30 1 * — 2 k
187700	U S Steel . . .	. 29?k	21-\.	28-k-t- 4
Although the past week was not
from this source In the futures markets at New York and New Orleans are generally estimated as totaling about 225,000 bales in the last three weeks. In addition, government agencies are reported to have sold during the past week 130,000 bales of actual cotton at Liverpool and on the Continent. The generally accepted explanation for these sales is that they represent cotton to an amount of 357,000 bales from the crop of 1931 which the Department of Agriculture took over as repayment for seed loans to growers.
With a few qualifications. Washington’s weekly weather report described cotton crop conditions as rather satisfactory, and said warm sunny weather was favorable for holding weevils in check In most sections of the belt The report emphasized the nerd of moisture in some eastern parts and locally in northwestern sections of the belt. Tn these areas, however, showers occurred in the last half of the past week, following publication of the government report.
_	.	.. . replete with
financial news of importance, a more optimistic feeling grew strongly and made for stronger and more active markets.
Perhaps the important factor was a number of six months’ statements offering better showings than had been expected. The strong reports made by the oil companies also exerted an influence, as did those of the alcohol companies and some of the chemical companies.
Events in Washington growing out of efforts to disperse the B. E F. had no reverberation in the financial district.
Brokerage houses felt much happier, with an increasing volume of business and the strongly advancing markets bringing the public into the markets on a larger scale than in sometime. In the 2.700.000 sales on Thursday, the Street saw the biggest session since December 18. 1931. Some firms have had to augment their forces as a result of larger business. Odd lot, both investment and speculative, business also increased greatly.
Bonds were strong throughout the week and supplied a nice volume of business to the Street’s general quota. With commodity prices m many instances going higher, wire houses also did a substantial business in this direction and undoubtedly the stock market rise got its cue from bonds and commodities.
Hails Bend the Adiuncr
Bailroad shares were perhaps the leaders m the advance, with Union Pacific the feature. This stock has advanced nearly 20 points in about two weeks and has undoubtedly helped tn carry other leading rails to higher levels The feeling in the Street that the railroad executives are working hard on plans to help their situation, together with the hope of better business, is undoubtedly a factor behind the advance in these securities
Steel stocks acted well. American Telephone & Telegraph helped by a large short interest running to cover, was a strong feature and. although many in the Street still believe the dividend will be reduced at the August 17 meeting. a great many do not believe it will be cut more than SI to an SS basis, wh*ch would mean that the price has more than discounted such a reduction.
Steel" Prices Holding Better
In the absence of any actual change in operating conditions m the steel industry, which maintained the 16rc rate of the preceding week, attention was focused on the earnings statements for the second quarter and upon results of dividend action** by the major companies. Bethlehem Steel directors voted unanimously to omit the preferred payment, and. though Eugene “	“	op-
thc the
Season Begins with Record Carryover
A record carryover of American cotton features the new cotton season starting Monday. World consumption of American cotton foi the season J 931-1932 is estimated by the New York Cotton Exchange Service at 12.100,000 to 12,500.000 bales, which would make the carryover 1 amount to about 13.250 000 bales. Those figures compare with a consumption in the season 19301931 of 11.113 000 bales*, and with a carryover' on July 31. 1931. of 8.919,000 bales. The increase m consumption was not the result of a 1 general pick-up in world demand, a large part j of it was occasioned by the preference given , by China and Japan to American cotton over Indian.	;
As to the increased carryover, some traders | stress the point that it loses much of its terrify- • ing aspect if it bo considered that instead of i there being surplus, there is an arute shortage of cotton goods among jobbers, retailers and in | the hands of ultimate consumer*- as a result of nearly three years of inventory reduction and hand-to-mouth buying Much of the carryover °f raw cotton would in normal years be m the ‘ manufactured cotton to an extent os.
to be as much as -4,000,000 or 3.000 000
form of timated bales.
G Grace, president, expressed a little ttmism because of the changed sentiment in stock market, he said nothing definite in way of improvement m the steel industry.
The United States Steel Corp, voted to another regular dividend on the preferred, the remarks accompanying tended to check any undue Taylor, chairman, observed that there had been a dram of about S73.000.000 upon the surplus account, and that anv further dividend on the preferred must depend upon actual improvement in business.
Some managed ating economies, reached the limit on, an improving volume of business is needed to help earnings In the meantime, steel prices are holding better than at any time since the depression started.
Cotton Prices Moie Higher
Trading in cotton futures furnished a contradiction to the adage that crop weather makes the price. A sharp recovery in wheat and a broad advance in securities, with the improved sentiment toward cotton which the action of outside markets inspired, formed the dominating influence for the cotton market.
Notwithstanding weather conditions that on the whole favored the crop, the market moved up for gains that at the week’s highs amounted to more than $1 50 a bale. October cotton crossed the 6-cent level, putting all active months above that mark for the first time in more than three months. It was estimated that professional shorts covered about 75,000 bales of futures.
This advance in cotton occurred in the face of further selling by brokers identified with the cooperatives and government agencies. These brokers continued to sell daily about 10,000 bales of cotton, mostly in October. Sales
Bank Statement Encouraging
week’s bank statements were the most encouraging since the end of May. during which period there had been disturbing evidences that both deflation and currency hoarding had been 1 resumed oi» a large scale However, the tact that currency circulation declined S 15,000 000 1 last week, more than oft-.setting the $21,000,000 • gain of the preceding week, would seem to in- , dicate that national confidence in the banking structure was not shaken hy the adverse (level-opments in Chicago in enrlj July	’
Last week member banks paid off $13 000 -000 of their borrowings trom the Federal Reserve, due largely to lower demands for currency and to an $$.00<».00O increase in the country’s’ gold stock and a $5.000 000 incrca-e, m government securities held hy the Reserve Banks Perhaps the most encouraging feature aside from the currency item is the steady increase in member bank reserve balances which, in the past four weeks have increased $10° -000.000 Surplus rc-crvos are again piling up in both New York and Chicago	.
In New York City there was ar. increase of $32,000,000 in total loans and investments of reporting member banks the first gam since the end of June This gam t< <.k place m the face of an JS18.000.000 decline ir -erurity lo m«-(borrowers apparer.tlv used the advancing markets to liquidate loans , Tn ere w is a $«? ooo -000 Increase in so-called bu-ines*- loins and an $8,000,000 mcrehse in investments m non-gnx-crnnien securities
Money markets were :• itutde<. all week but the general tendency w is for an en-m^ in rate.*,. For a substantial pan of tin* week money was virtually unlcr.uabh in tn<> torn: of highly Ijquid loan.-
This
pay but the announcement optimism Mr.
of the independent steel compan.es to show the results of further oper-btit mn«t companies have in this respect From now
. Wheat in Sharp Kcco\er\
A broad buying mnvrnent tanieu Chn.igo wheat up for a nru.e imnr« cnient. of noout seven cents a bu-nel from th»* lows of the previous week and t<» the bed qunlatmn- since June 17. Profit-taking .-des Jn the 1 itle- par: of the week i.ui«i’tl Jnv market tn -ell of! mod-eratek from the nigh-
Extraneoib tn.lueiu e- mi lading a spt«a<i of npt.mi«m «n<l confidence * «»n« erning tne general busmens outlook here and abrom, as well as the nig improvement m price- foi secuntie*-plaved a «n.ur tn the lemvcrv of the wnml market The mam spur for n-ing quotations in wheat, however cnnM«t rd of mlvues from Europe and from the spring wheat areas of North Amenia whicn militated a sharp lowering nr the prospective crop
Ottawa, in its official report. uimmenteil that weather in tne Prairie Pr<iun< e- had n<-< n hot and dry lor a week, with only hgiit and scattered showers throughout Saskatchewan and Alberta, and that, as a hMilt the w>*ek had seen the wheat creyp attacked at its vulnerable points Hot. dry weather gave a definite setback to the crop where subsoil moisture was lacking and current rainfall insufficient. A later survey by Modern Miller, however, reported the Canadian crop making good progress except in isolated districts, mainly southwestern Saskatchewan.
Estimates of the Europeim crop-, which not long ago indicated a prospective in«'i*'a’*e of tn.-000,000 tn 50,000,000 nils’,iris over la«t years harvest, have been vevi-cd rlownwuil, so that currently, a harvest -10 000.00n *n 4S <100.000 bushels less than m J931 is anticipated Serious damage has been reported to when in the Danu bi an Basin
Foreign Exchanges Break
Stagnation characterized the foreign exchange market in the first half of the week The dollar gained ground slightly against the gold Continental.-, while sterling declined steadily on a minimum of business Speculation has been practically non-existent in the market and the lack of commercial bills of exchange loft the trading tables idle.
A sensational break occurcd in the market in London on Thursday which was followed by wild gyrations in the rates in the domestic market. For the fust hour of trailing, difficulty was found in locating true markets but when orderly trading w’as established, .sterling sank steadily and all currencies made now lows on the move French francs established a new low for the year at $ 0300 15-16
Immediate cause for the break of the exchanges was found in the rush of bears to cover their open short positions taken in forward dollar exchange during the flight from the dollar last spring. These positions for the most part were never closed in expectations of further unfavorable developments in this country.
The steady advance in the local security markets bi ought about a complete change of foreign sentiment regarding American conditions Previously convinced that the United States was headed for economic chaos, the sight of rising security prices brought conviction that the United States after all furnished the be*t opportunity for capital investment and appreciation.
Europe Buying Storks
There has been a certain amount of foreign
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.