The Markets: Stocks Close at Best Prices of Day After Irregularity on ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 6, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 6
Stocks Close at Tie st Prices of Day ^.fter Irregularity on Reduced. Vol-•	time—T. <Sj T. at New High
London markets irregular; bonds steady; industrials off.
i
Berlin Boersc better.
Paris Bourse heavy.
Despite efforts of the shorts, aided toy considerable profit-taking, the market closed at the best prices of the day wtih a number of shares attaining new highs during the final moments of trading. American Telephone & Telegraph was easily the feature of the last 15 minutes, advancing to a new high on the current advance to 101 c,h, or 30 points above the low of the last month.
As an example of the speed with which the rally gained way in the final moments of trading, American Telephone, selling at 99 15 minutes before the close, ended at 1O1%; Steel rose from 32’-: to 34; Harvester from 25 to 28^j»; J. I. Case from 40 %, to 43 and Atchison from 35’- to 37.
After an irregular opening, stocks advanced and then settled down in the second hour and ran into a reaction which lasted until the final half hour when the market resumed its advance under leadership of the rails, communications, oils and farm machinery issues.
The volume of sales was considerably below the previous session, with the least activity prevailing when the market was reactionary.
Overnight news was constructive. Further movements toward helping the agricultural situation were welcomed in the Street and were reflected in substantial advances in mail order stocks and farm machinery issues.
Carriers remained firm throughout but were not active.
Higher wheat prices as well as bond prices
helped stocks early in the session and it is ob- : vious that stock traders are still getting their leading cue from these markets as well as from the advancing metal prices.	,
Volume dropped oft steadily as rallying tendencies stopped and this cheered those working for the constructive side, as did the theory that the short interest is still extensive and on the recent advance the number of "sold-out" bulls has mcresaed materially.
No Banking Interests Dominate A T A. T
Contrary to popular opinion as to the outcome of the forthcoming dividend meeting ot American Telephone & Telegraph on August 17. there is no dominant bonking interest m the American Telephone «fc Telegraph Co.
Tncre is htle change in the company’s business m the last tew weeks from what it was in the past three months. Undoubtedly more telephones have been Jost as this is the season in which the number of instruments in operation dips to a low ebb.
any division of the chem-It was threatened with a possible break-down of
number of workers in ical industry abroad, serious disruption by _ prices that might have resulted from Chilean dumping if no adjustment had been reached. This, obviously, would have further complicated the difficult German Industrial situation.
While Chilean stocks are still large European synthetic stocks have been materially reduced. due to the shut-down of American byproduct coke ovens resulting from curtailment In the steel industry. America, despite the greatly reduced fertilizer demand, has been consuming the European surplus of the various forms of synthetic nitrates. While no immediate effect on Allied Chemical & Dye, America’s largest producer of synthetic sodium nitrate is apparent, the company will obviously benefit substantially in the long run and be able to stabilize prices. The agreement is another evidence of world effortst o readjust the economic structure by reasonable cooperation.
Lamont as President of Steel Institute
Selection of Robert P. Lamont to be president of the American Iron & Steel Institute is looked upon in the steel industry as a most constructive move for greater stability in prices. While there has been considerable talk of a czar for the industry, the fact of the matter is that Mr Lamoni's work will be under the direction of the board of directors of the institute. the most representative group of steel men ever to control institute affairs.
Through the efforts of the new president, it is hoped to develop new outlets far steel, and at the same time curtail as much as possible the cut-throat competition which was so disturbing in past years.
Mr. Lamont’s election will be the first step for reorganizing and revitalizing the Steel Institute.
Stmiolind Crude Oil Purehimlng Co.
Although Thurman Hill, of the Kansas Public Service Commission, believes an advance uf 25 ’cents a barrel in crude quotations would result if withdrawals from storage were reduced to 50.000 barrels a day and total domestic output were held to 2.000.000 barrails dally, this counter to the attitude of major interests the industry.
The position of the large purchasers crude oil is indicated in the recent statement K. S Ellison, president ot Stanolind Crude Oil Purchasing Co . subsidiary of Standard Oil Co..
a	the cttect that "Stanolind will
favorable developments in the of finished products in offering a higher unfair higher
is in
of of
NHrute Cooperation Important
News that a nitrate cartel has again been formed with an agreement between European and Chilean producers i<s of primary importance in the rehabilitation of Centra! Europe The synthetic nitrate industry employs the largest
ilndiaiftii to have to sec stabilization of the price before it will feel justified crude price It would be to allow the prospect of unquestioned ’’
Mr. Ellison added that "with slipping as t stocked with gasoline and still much. I believe the industry will tunnte. if it can adjust crude enough to hold present prices ’’
to produceis prices to go
consumption is, and with the refineries overgasoline
running ton be very for-output fast
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.