The Markets: General Body of Stocks Off Sharply an Unfavourable ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 9, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
The Markets
General Body of Stocks Off Sharply on Unfavorable Washington Developments—Auburn Strong—Telephone at New Low
London market generally weak; British funds tower; German bonds slightly better,
Faris Bourse heavy.
Unfavorable developments at the nation's capitol, Including tbe House passage of the Gar* ner relief bill which would necessitate a bond issue in excess of $1,000,000,000, the threat to a balanced budget by reducing savings in the economy bill and the demand for a vote on the bonus bill, were the prime factors adversely in* fiuencing prices on the New York Stock Ex* change on Wednesday. The general body ot stocks suffered in the downswing and substantial losses were distributed throughout the list.
Other principal markets furnished no in-centlve to an improvement in stock prices. Bonds, which held fairly steady throughout the early session, dipped later in all classes and United States governments disclosed fractional losses on the day. Commodity markets also turned down, wheat and cotton being particularly weak. .
Trade developments were unencouraging, the outstanding feature being another drop in steel output to within a fraction ot the low for the current business depression, One trade paper, the American Metal Market, stated that output dropped to 17%, which would establish a new low.
Weakness In leading stocks, particularly American Telephone and Woolworth, also ox* ertert an unfavorable influence upon the remainder of the list. The former dipped to a new low, while Woolworth suffered a temporary sinking spell on the resignation of the company's president. At one time it sold down to 231? for a loss of 2 points on the day.
.	B.-M. T. at New Low Mark
Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit again featured on the downside, hitting into new low territory, at 11%, off 4 points on the day. R. H. Macy also furnished a target for selling, and was forced to 17%, off 4% points from Tuesday's closing price. The directors of the latter are scheduled to meet for dividend action next week. Both issues recovered fractionally by closing time.
Auburn Automobile was an exception to the general market trend and displayed distinct strength throughout the session. At one time it sold at 37 % for a gain of 2 % -points on the day.
Railroad Shares Continue Under Pressure
While carrier shares moved in line with the general market, weakness was apparent in specific issues. Atchison has been outstanding for its activity counter to the rail list, and was inclined to heaviness. Its weakness Is due probably to uncertainties with respect to dividends which come up for action late this month.
I At the last meeting of directors, three months ago, it was stated officially that the continuance of payments on common stock must | depend on improvement in earnings. In the first I quarter of the current year. Atchison had a | deficit of roughly $i;000,000 after charges. Its [ net operating income for the first four months of this year amounted to $2,272,247, a decrease of 54.4% from the corresponding period in 1931. The four months* figure, of course, is before fixed charges.
From the standpoint of loadings, Atchison in May showed a decrease of 28.5% as compared with the same month a year ago, and con; trary to the usual trend, the May loadings were below April. The road’s expenses in April were about the same as those in March, due to the continuance of spring maintenance work. Some economies, however, are being worked out.	.
Western Union dividend Action Next Week
Stock of Western Union has been weak in recent sessions, and hit a new low of 15%. The directors are scheduled to meet for dividend ac
tion next week. At the last meeting a dividend of $1 was authorized for the quarter.
Some revision in Western,Union's dividend is looked for by the Street, but It remains to be seen what effect the many economies have bad on the final showing, despite the fact that business to about as quiet as a month ago, and considerably smaller than a year previously. Like other communications companies, Western Union should recover quickly when business turns. Currently, however, it to going through one of the poorest earnings' periods In its long history.
Automobile Sales Slightly Above Seasonal Shares of automobile companies have trended
; with the general market although in recent ses-slons their performance has been, perhaps, somewhat better than the remainder of the list. The betterment is in reflection partly of the higher than seasonally normal car shipments in tbe last few months. May, for Instance, resulted In shipments of 186,000 units, an increase of about 20% compared with the previous j month, but 44% less than in May, 1931.
i A factor In the May gain was shipments by Ford, who, In earlier months, had not been in full production on the new line of eights. The announcement by Ford of a further stepping up In production for June should aid to swell the figures for that month for the industry; at least, It will tend to offset the seasonal decline for the remainder of companies. Total saleB of new cars by all companies in the first five months of this year, throughout the United States and Canada, were approximately 48% leas than in the corresponding period of 1931.
Auburn Price Slash Competitive Factor Auburn stock has been outstanding for Its strength. The company, like others in the industry, has been affected in its opera-l tlons as a result of the depression. But while learnings in the first quarter of the current year were insufficient to cover dividend payments, and it to probable that currently net continues to run behind, the directors declared the regular dividends of $1 In cash and 2% in stock. x
Auburn has just announced a slash in prices on its eights and twelves by an average of $300 to $800, respectively, which will bring the com* ipany into greater competition in the so-called low-price field, particularly on Its eights. It has i resumed operations at the Connersville plant | and has set a production goal of 100 cars dally within a week.
; The company's finances continue in a strong ; liquid position; current assets as of February 29, last, being equal to about $7 for each $1 of current liabilities. At the end of the last fiscal year—November 30, 1931—It had cash and government securities of $8,400,000. Net income in the first quarter ended February 29, last, was equal to only 4 cents a share on capital stock and compared with $1.06 in the similar period a year earlier.
|	Industrial Averages Rallied'T7%
’ The market has had the fast automatic rally to which it was technically entitled, following
; the latest wave of heavy selling, states Edward
B.	Smith A Co. "This rally accounted for a ’rise of 17% in the industrial average," the com-Jpanv comments, "and about 28% and 30%r respectively. in the utility and railroad averages. "These are large gains to be concentrated in only 11 trading hours, and the very steepness of the climb suggests the need for correction prior to any new assault upon the well defined resistance area equivalent to 52—56 for the industrial average.
"While there is no assurance that the bear i market has been completed, we believe that the 'usual signal heralding tbe initiation of an intermediate movement has been given, and that following a reaction close to previous lows, an endeavor will be made to extend the recovery."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.