Abreast of the Market
Edmondson, Richard E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 15, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
By Richard E. Edmondson
Fresh indications that nature was lining up with the Federal Reserve program to lift commodity prices afforded the most cheering factor in the economic situation yesterday. Further weather inroads on the winter wheat crop in the Southwest were reported, suggesting that a revision downward of about 25,000,000 bushels would have to be made in the government estimate on the winter wheat crop as of April 1. Latter was placed at 458,000,000 bushels, compared with last year's actual production of 787,000,000 bushels.
In addition to the bullish crop developments, the wheat market also was strengthened by substantial European requisitions on the American supply. Prices at Chicago enjoyed gains running up to slightly more than 2 cents a bushel, reaching the best levels attained since November 19.	,
On the 3tock Exchange, price movements in the share list were irregular, demonstrating that continued liquidation in various departments was impairing the immediate effectiveness of the Federal Reserve proposals to check deflation. . With industrial and railroad stocks in new low ground for the 1929-32 major decline at Wednesday's close, and bonds at the lowest average levels touched since 1921, preceding resistance levels were broken down in leading stocks throughout the list by a steady stream of selling during the first hour.
Steel common dropped to a new low since 1908, in which year it sold at 25%. Since then, however, the corporation paid a 40% common stock dividend, distributed June 1, 1927. American Telephone reached a new low since 1921, while Union Pacific and Atchison touched levels not previously seen since 1900.
Sharp Rebound in Peoples Gas
General Motors and du Pont reached new record lows for the present common shares, and extensions of the downward movement occurred in the whole market on active trading. However, this urgent selling appeared to have cleaned up the liquidation immediately overhanging, and a greatly improved tone developed in the general list toward noon.
Rallying tendencies in pivotal shares were given impetus by a spectacular rebound in Peoples Gas. After breaking more than 10 points in Wednesday's session, the stock staged an equally violent recovery following the statement by Samuel Insull that Peoples Gas, Commonwealth Edison and Public Service of Northern Ilinois were independent operating companies and were not involved in any financial difficulties that might affect the holding companies of the Insull group, Peoples Gas also derived stimulus from preliminary figures on earnings for the first quarter, indicating a balance of $2.45 a share on 690,000 shares, against $2.65 a share on 666,903 shares in the first three months of 1931.	_
Active covering was influenced by the abrupt upturn in Peoples Gas. and the princlpaT stocks engaged in a vigorous rally during the afternoon. Union Pacific, and Atchison recaptured their earlier losses, and rose well above the previous closing levels. American Telephone, Steel, and other pivotal issues also recovered sharply, and the general list was accorded relief from pressure.
Federal Reserve Credit Plans
With the market in the throes of an active liquidating movement, it was in no mood to be Impressed by the longer term possibilities of the Federal Reserve program to pursue a more aggressive easy money policy in an attempt to expand bank credit, and effect a gradual advance in commodity and security price levels. It is evident that easier credit conditions will be ineffective unless the banks, in turn, make available to the business man the liquid funds placed at their disposal through the Federal Reserve buying operations in the open money market.
Until the banks can be induced to loosen the
credit strings, attempts to check the deflation will be fruitless. Previous efforts in this direction over the last two years by the Federal Reserve have not succeeded. Instead, there has been a sweeping contraction in banking credit since early 1930.
Similarly, the purchases of government bonds by the Federal Reserve to the extent ol approximately $25,000,000 weekly over the last seven weeks has furnished little more than an 'offset to the liquidation of maturing bills. However, an increase in the Reserve buying to $75,000,000 weekly would cause member banks to sell some of their holdings of government obligations. This process would place additional cash into the hands of the banks, giving them more funds to loan to commercial borrowers.
Reduced yields on government bonds and bankers’ acceptances afford the Federal Reserve authorities a powerful weapon to force banks to place their excess reserves into outlets supplying a more profitable return. It is not expected that the Reserve program will prove immediately effective in promoting credit expansion. But over a period of a month to six weeks, it is felt that the pressure on the banks toward a more liberal extension of credit will become increasingly insistent, unless something happens to upset the Federal Reserve plans.
Relation of Credit to Prices
Recognizing that the restoration of confidence was an essential prerequisite to the success of the Federal Reserve program, most observers felt that the enactment of the Glass-Steagall bill had provided a groundwork of bank, ing stability that materially brightened proa, pects for bringing about increasing use of the nation’s credit resources. With hopes growing that such an expansion can be accomplished, economist^ were studying the effects of similar movements in the past.
In this connection, considerable attention was paid to a survey made some time ago by Carl Snyder, statistician of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In analyzing statistics from 1875 to date, Mr. Snyder found that the ratio of credit to trade was constant, and that any great increase in credit invariably ■was followed by an advance in commodity prices, and by an upturn in production.
From 1897 to 1907. the volume of credit increased more rapidly than production, and prices advanced. From 1893 to 1896, and from 1929 to 1931, there was no expansion of credit. In both those periods, the volume of credit was not keeping abreast of production, and prices fell. From 1907 to 1915, the volume of credit showed an average increase of 4% yearly, which was about equal to the rate of increase in production, and in those years the general price level remained stable. '
With economists gerterally agreeing that there is a mathematical relationship between the volume of credit and production on one hand, and the price level on the other, the outcome of the Reserve steps to create credit expansion will be watched with keen interest. Indications of success for the undertaking will be interpreted to point to a reversal in the prolonged deflationary movement in commodity and security prices.
France Gains Gold
Gold holdings of the Bank of France advanced to a new high at fr, 76.909,000,000 during the week ended April 8. The rise amounted to only fr. 125,000,000. but it was sufficient to overcome the loss of the preceding week. The next statement should show’ a still further rise because of gold shipments from New York. As . a result c»f a drop of fr. 300,000,000 iff total sight liabilities—circulation having more than i offset the increase in deposits—the bank reports a new peak in its ratio as well, the figure advancing to 70.16% from 69.85%. Foreign bali ances were reduced by about fr. 150,000.000, now ! totaling slightly more than fr. 12.000,000.000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.