Abreast of the Market: British funds and bonds on London market ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 7, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
Abreast of the Market
British funds and bonds on London market strong; Industrials and utilities weaker.
Paris bourse featured by heaviness In rentes and bonds.
The most constructive developments in Washington in some time, all having a direct bearing upon a balanced budget, were prime contributing factors to a brisk upturn In prices on* the New York Stock Exchange on Friday. Trading activity picked up substantially and liberal advances of full points and more were common throughout the main body of stocks.
The initial impetus to an improved block market was furnished by PreBldent Hoover's address to Congress on Thursday afternoon. He declared that it is imperative that prompt and resolute action bo taken to balance the budget, stressing that "uncertainty is disastrous," and and that the most essential factor to economic recovery is the restoration of confidence.
Tax Compromise and Unfavorable Bonus Report Other important developments to influence price movements favorably were the adoption of a compromise tax program by the Senate Finance Committee which will have the full support of the administration and Treasury, and an unfavorable report by the House ways and means committee on the Patman bill and all other bills before the committee dealing with the cash payment of the remainder of the adjusted service certificates of World War veterans.
An improvement in the banking situation, as evidenced by the weekly reports of the Federal Reserve banks, and price betterment in the oil Industry, particularly for gasoline, also contributed to a bettered market sentiment. Among leading stockB to score advances of more than 3 points during the session were American Can, American Telephone, Coca-Cola, Allied Chemical, American Tobacco B and Brooklyn Union Gas.
Reserve Policy of Expansion Helpful
The special usefulness of the open market operations of the Federal Reserve Bonks exists in the fact that these banks take the initiative in making funds more plentiful. Ordinarily, the initiative lies with private borrowers. The latter system works well enough In normal times, but it does not work so well when liquidation of bank credit is under way, with deposits and reserves falling by reason of the public determination to get out of debt, and by reason of the contraction caused by gold and currency withdrawals.
Bank deposits for the most part are made by bank loans and investments, and decline as the volume of loans and investments is reduced. This credit can be called out again by a resumption of borrowing by the public, but with such extreme pessimism as has been manifested in the last year the public is disinclined to take the initiative and the banks are disinclined to borrow from the Reserve banks to make loans, the more so as they have been compelled to borrow to meet cash withdrawals.
Since the public does not take the initiative to correct the situation, it is necessary for the credit-making authority (Federal Reserve banks) to do so and, by its own action, increase the amount of credit available in the market. This can be done by the purchase of government bonds. Issuing new credit for the purpose. The checks given for the bonds will be deposited in banks and thence pass back to the Reserve banks, either in payment for past rediscounts or for credit in the reserve accounts of the member banks, where the credit will serve as the reserve base for a possible expansion of member bank loans or investments in at least 10 times the volume.
Benefits Not Only Government But Corporations
Commenting on the Reserve policy, the National City Bank states that a manifestation in the bond market will be helpful not only to government but corporate financing, thus providing the means for expenditures which will increase employment In short, by placing funds in the money market, where business goes to finance its needs, the Reserve System supplies funds in
the manner most helpful to sound business revival, supplies it by an orderly process, assuring wide distribution, and avoids the ^angers that attach to large issues of paper money.
It is a careful and calculated method, under experienced control, of overcoming the excessive deflation of credit and of encouraging business confidence and enterprise. Of course, an increased volume of currency will naturally result as needed by increased activity in business.
A further word may be said upon the attitude of member banks, states the National City, since it is the subject of very free comment. "There are inquiries as to whether, or to what extent, the banks will put the new Reserve credit to use, and some of the comment implies that there is no alternative between a policy of allowing the credit to stand Idle as excess reserve, which would nullify the Reserve Banks' efforts, and one of making loans and investments at excessive risk, which would be unsound banking.
"However, there is no such sharp line. - Between the alternatives of excessive risk and excess reserves there is a border area of indeterminate width in which the policy of credit expansion may be expected to take effect. The policy is calculated to revive enterprise and stimulate a demand for credit by good borrowers."
Week's Bank Statements Encouraging
This week's bank statements offer pretty conclusive proof that It is possible for the Federal Reserve bankB tq expand the volume of general credit outstanding. After four weeks of purchase of government securities at the rate of $100,000,000 weekly, the Reserve banks have accomplished three things: first, reduced borrowings by member banks by $120,000,000; second, they have reversed the downward trend of commercial deposits as shown by an Increase of demand deposits in New York City banks amounting to $281,000,000, and third, most of the increased deposits have been put to work by commercial banks either as loans or investments.
It is notable In connection with credit expansion that in the past three weeks of very pronounced market weakness, the security loans of New York banks have declined only $25,000,000, while "all other" loans have increased $44,000,000. Their investments in government securities have increased $231,000,000 and their investments In other securities by $57,000,000.
New Money for General Credit Use
Skeptics of the new Reserve policy point out that the bulk of the funds released by the Reserve banks have been invested by member banks of New York City in new issues of the Treasury or of New York and that, therefore, the money has not gone into business or the general security market. This is a fallacious argument because the funds received by governmental agencies from new issues are immediately deposited in banks and in the course of time are paid out as salaries, interest on government securities, etc. In other words, all such moneys go directly into the general credit pot and eventually circulate. In actual business transactions.
The two most interesting items in this week’s statement of the 12 Federal Reserve banks, aside from the $96,000,000 increase in holdings of government securities, were the $50,000,000 increase in currency circulation and the $20,000,000 decline in holdings of bankers’ acceptances purchased for the account of foreign correspondents. The large increase in circulation, which w*as greater than usual over a month-end period, wras partly accounted for by heavy deposit withdrawals from the Atlantic National Bank of Boston. The currency should return to banks now* that the Boston situation has been cleared up; the bank has been absorbed by the First National Bank there. The,decline in acceptance holdings for the account of foreign banks brings the total decline since April 6 to $57,000,000 and resulted in part from foreign withdrawal of gold and in pant from the severe decline in yields on acceptances. Foreign banks now have only $278,000,000 invested in bills through the Federal Reserve banks.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.