Abreast of the Market
Edmondson, Richard E
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 22, 1932;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 8
the Market
Abreast of
By Richard E. Edmondson
London Stock Exchange was steady, with sentiment improved by redaction In Bank of England rate. Gilt-edge issues were stroner.
Faris Bourse was unsettled by acute weakness in Royal Dutch.
Indications of a broadening movement to ease credit conditions, and lift price levels throughout the world, were deduced from the action of the Bank of England in cutting its rate to 3%, representing the fourth reduction since the start of the year. Following this step, considerable expectation arose in Wall Street of a lowering of the present 3% rediscount charge of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the meeting after yesterday's close.
This anticipation was heightened by another downward revision in bankers* acceptance quotations, and by the generally easing credit picture at this center. However, announcement was made in the late afternoon that no change had been made in the existing level.
During the day's dealings on the Stock Exchange, shorts manifested some nervousness over the immediate market effects of possible action with regard to a lower bank rate. Covering operations were undertaken in good-sized volume.
Fresh buying also came into the market on the theory that the list was in an oversold position, and might be galvanized into a sharp technical rally on the appearance of constructive news. Demand from these two sources caused the principal stocks to embark upon a brisk recovery, which emerged from further liquidation in individual Issues during the morning. • Special pressure converged on Royal Dutch after the latter had dropped sharply at Paris .and London on unofficial reports from Amsterdam that the dividend probably would be reduced. In the New York market, the American shares touched the lowest levels ever reached. Standard of New Jersey was another weak spot in the petroleum group, setting up a new record low for the present stock.
Representative railroad stocks maintained their recently Improved tone while additional selling was proceeding in special issues. When this liquidation subsided, the principal carrier shares led a broad upturn, which carried Atchison, Union Pacific, and other pivotal issues of this group to new highs on the recovery.
Royal Dutch Co.
Royal Dutch Petroleum Co. will meet in Amsterdam about the middle of May for action on the final dividend for the year 1931. On November 2, last year, the interim dividend was omitted. For 1930 the company paid an interim dividend of 10% and a final dividend of 7%, m a total of 17%, which on the American shares on the New York Stock Exchange was equivalent to $2.28 for the year. For 1929 an interim dividend of 10% and a final dividend of 14% were*paid, a total of 24%-, equivalent to $3.^2 on the American shares.
Bank Rate Possibilities
It has been informally stated in authoritative quarters several times recently that there would be no particular point in a rediscount rate reduction, since member bank borrowings are declining and New York banks especially have a small total of rediscounts outstanding. The Reserve’s policy of buying governments has been working in the manner desired by the officials, and open market rates are extremely cheap. Bills 10*0 now offered on a less than 1% yield basis, short term government securities are returning less than 1%, commercial paper is slowly weakening, and time money is offered, in vain, at 2^%.
With money rates so far out of adjustment with the bank rate, a cut could easily be made
without affecting the credit situation materially, except as it might induce out-of-town Reserve banks to follow suit. It has been stated that the bank rate has lost its psychological value, through constant changes In the last two years and through the greater importance which open market operations have assumed. Having held back a reduction this long, it would appear that the authorities are awaiting a more favorable moment for making the change.
Bank of England Cuts Rate
No surprise was occasioned by the further reduction in the Bank of England rate to 3%, from 3%%. With a 2% money market existing in London, the rate had been out of line, and the cut was made to adjust this situation.
Bank of England rate is now down to where it was a year ago. .In the interim, it had been as high as 6% during the financial difficulties which forced Great Britain to abandon the gold standard.
Indications of the stronger position, which enabled the bank to establish a lower rediscount base, were afforded by the institution's weekly statement. Circulation showed a reduction to £354,271,000, from £356,753,000 the preceding week, while the reserve ratio rose to 36.1%, from 32.1% last week.
Gold holdings of the Bank of France increased to a further record high during the past week. However, the gain was less than had been expected, bringing the total 77,065,000,000 francs, from 76,909,000,000 francs the previous week. The institution's reserve ratio also reached the highest point in history, advancing to 70.30%, against 70.16% last week.
American Telephone
People who have made a study of the earnings situation in American Telephone conclude that it affords the chief explanation for the recent decline In the stock to the lowest levels touched since 1921. Although last year's earnings of the operating companies in the Bell system held up close to the 1930 level, declines have been experienced since the start of this year.
In the first quarter of 1932, dividends received by American Telephone from the associated Bell companies amounted to $35,174,105, which was $5,000,000 more than was actually earned In that period. Making allowance for this deficiency, analysts figure that American Telephone's balance for the initial three months this year would have been $1.80 a share, compared with $2.07 on a basis of the full amount of dividends paid the parent organization by the operating units.
American Telephone currently is obtaining no income from Western Electric, which is almost entirely owned. In the first quarter of 1931, American Telephone received $5,900,000 from this subsidiary in dividends. In the Initial three months this year, the Bell system suffered a loss of 280,000 telephones through disconnections. Thia decrease compared with total disconnections of 190,000 In the full year 1931.
It is felt that American Telephone's management will make a determined effort to maintain the present $9 dividend rate throughout the depression in order to emphasize the high investment qualities of the stock, and to avoid hardship among the large^ number of individual stockholders of moderate means.
In the past, the development of the telephone business has progressed almost without regard to business conditions, the main problem having been the creation of facilities fast enough to keep pace with the demand. The current depression, however, has adversely influenced earnings, particularly in the last three or four months. Unless a decided pick-up in business takes place, therefore, many students feel that American Telephone directors may deem it advisable to authorize a dividend reduction later in the year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.