Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 11, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
Buoyed by added testimony to the Improvemeat in general industry, the securities markets moved forward smartly Wednesday. The stock market had the benefit of the upturn in the unfilled tonnage of the U. S. Steel Corp, of 23,572 tons, the first increase in the corporation’s backlog since October, 1932, and the electric output figures for the week ended May 6, which finally crossed the output for the like week of 1932. There was a scattering of other favorable developments, Including the meeting in Washington to discuss legislation affecting the oil industry, which served to stimulate interest in stocks.
All groups of stocks shared in the advance, and gains in some of the leaders ran to 5 points or more. The iparket. as a whole, moved up to around the best prices of the recovery. Low-priced shares, which had been somewhat neglected, came to the fore with abrupt gains. Railroad shares were higher from the start, moving ahead in anticipation of a good loadings report next Saturday, covering the week ended May 6. Trading volume picked up on the recovery, transactions reaching 3,820,000 shares, against 2,240,000 Tuesday.
The trend of prices for bonds was generally upward, with all groups sharing in the advances. With inflation excitement temporarily removed as an influence on the securities markets, the market for bonds has improved. Governments ranged higher, and high-grade obligations joined the upturn. There were sharp advances in some of the more speculative issues. German Government issues moved ahead.
The two major commodities markets, wheat and cotton, turned upward. Wheat closed up 1 *4. to 1% cents a bushel, and com and other grains were higher. Cotton, which made small gains m the previous session, closed very strong, up about $1.50 a bale. A buying wave in Worth Street stimulated the cotton market.
Industrial stocks were very strong in London, with mining shares lagging. Bond prices showed little change. In Fans, the market was higher with the exception of rentes
Electric Output Crosses 1932
The electric output figures for the week ended May 6 fulfilled the financial community’s expectations, : nd for the first time in 151 weeks output ran above the total for the corresponding week of the previous year. While the increase was small, it was satisfying, for it showed a reversal of the long period of disappointing declines.
A steady upward trend in output would reverse the situation of the utility industry entirely. While it still would suffer from public agitation for rate reductions and the imposition of additional taxes, the industry will be in far better shape to withstand assaults from these two quarters if the output and earnings curves are upward, rather than downward.
Expanding output also means that long idle equipment, on which the industry is meeting debt service for the capital expended in its construction, will be put back into operation. The expansion in the industry in boom times was accomplished by a heavy outlay for capital investments. At the low for output, the industry was operating at only about 55% of capacity, and the unused plant was a heavy drain on income. TTtility companies spent anywhere from $5 to $8 in capital outlay to obtain $1 of gross revenues, and the weight of the charges on this capital has borne down on the industry during the period of low earnings.
Wide Advances in Specialties
Wide advances were scored by some of the specialties yesterday, particularly preferred stocks. American Brake Shoe & Foundry preferred was up 13 points, and a similar advance was recorded by Vulcan Detinning preferred. Baldwin Locomotive preferred, on heavy trading, moved up to 26 Vs, up 8%, and the common advanced to 8%, up 1%. The poor first quarter report of Crown Cork & Seal didn’t prevent the stock from running up to close at 29*A, up 5^ on the day.
Among the well-tried leaders. Air Reduction, up 5; Columbian Carbon up 8; Union Pacific up 3% and du Font up 3’A. were the leaders.
The extra dividend voted by Dome Mines lent strength to the gold naming company group. Homestakc, as usual, did the best, running up 4V6 to close at 195%-
Industrials Cross September High
At yesterday’s close, the Dow-Jones average of 30 industrial stocks was at a new closing high for the current recovery of 80.78. At that level, the average was almost a full point through the September top of 79.93. The rail average, at yesterday’s finish, was at 36.03, about 3U points under the September top of 39.27. If both averages penetrate the September tops by more than one full point, it would be regarded as conclusive evidence, under the Dow theory, that a ^ull market was under way.
Among the leading packing companies is Armour of Illinois, which has widely ramified interests in meat packing and allied lines. Over the past three years, Armour has made heavy inroads into its debt, and it stands to benefit as much as any other company from the betterment in the packing industry.
In the year ended October, 1932, Armour had an inventory loss of somewhere around $11,000,000, and yet it showed only a small loss on its operations and a net income of $1,662,339, including $5,520,104 in profits made on purchase of its own bonds. The company, at the end of its fiscal year, had current assets, including $36,485,920 n cash and $52,514,177 n inventories, of $118,196,445, compared with current liabilities of only $11,427,445.
Armour of Illinois has outstanding a total of $96,251,400 of its own and controlled com
pany obligations. It also guarantees 7% dividends on 596,747 shares of Armour of Delaware preferred. The first call on the corporation’s earnings, after these charges, are the 572.313 Armour of Illinois preferred shares. The dividend on the stock was omitted in February, 1931. The 7% payment is cumulative, and arrearages now amount to $15.75 a share.
Big Oil Flow Helps I.-G. N.
The big increase in the output of the East Texas oil field has brought, grief to the oil industry, but at least one railroad has been an important beneficiary of the expansion in production. Loadings of the International-Great Northern, in the week ended May 6, totaled 6,574 cars, an increase of 2,663 cars over the like week of 1932, and more than 600 cars above the previous week. International-Great Northern, controlled by the Missouri Pacific, sought court protection when its parent decided to attempt a <y-^tion under the provisions of the bankruptcy bill. When the East Texas field was opened, the I.-G.N. made heavy expenditures to build spur lines into the field, and draw the new traffic to its own lines.
Big Advances in Output
Output figures rfor individual utility companies show wide discrepancies, with the gains from the like week of 1932 scored by some units of the industry very striking. Output of American Gas & Electric in the latest week was up around 14% from the like 1932 week, and a similar gain was scored by American Water Works. The very sharp spurt by these two companies reflects the improvement in general industry. Columbia Gas & Electric was another unit, recording an upturn considerably larger than for the industry as a whole. Output of the Niagara Hudson Power group was down slightly from the like week of the previous year.
Utility stocks have been held back, marketwise, by the tax measure now before Congress. A measure, providing for a shift of the burden of the 3% electric tax to the power companies from the consumers, has been changed in the Senate. The revision, if enacted, would reduce the tax on domestic and commercial use of power to 2%, with the proviso that the power companies meet it. and a tax of 1%. to be met by consumers, would be imposed only on industrial power consumption, with consumers paying it.
Meat Price* Moving Up
Advancing prices for meats are benefiting the packing industry’, and the low stocks on hand on April 1 augur well for continued pnee firmness throughout the summer. Stocks on. April 1 were down 25% from the previous year, and were 34% under the five-year average. Higher prices for other products, like eggs and hides, also are benefiting some of the packing company units, which are interesting in these lines
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies, compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according’ to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Since April 1 Decreased earnings..........420
Increased earnings .........133
Unchanged dividends.........272
Decreased dividends ........ 32
Omitted dividends........... 19
Increased dividends.......... 4
Additions yesterday
J 7 J.
1
High and Low Prices
change, 145 stocks made new highs and two stocks made new lows, for the year 1933.
AdvuncrKame ] Air Kcduvtlon Alrwiix Jhl An
Al list hulmera j Aniul trntlirr
Anml Leu th pf 1 Am Hru Kb pf Aintl.u'iill S'*	'
Am Hide A. I.
Am II A 1. pf Am ‘•melt of. Am steel
Am
Am Ttprldrtt , Am ISpr J’ pf Am IV oolro pf Armour 1* 7pf Ailit* I’dr pf Rnldtiin I.oro ISitlclxtin I. pf liaj tik Cip 1pf Jlloxx Knox .. Ilorp Warner Brown Shor.. Illicit] Mfc pf..
Blu'd Wheel. Bullard Co Bjcrx </\ M> B.vrn(AM) pf CrlilDPnr Corp f'rlutcx Co.. ('lieHtip’k < orp ( hl<*k (Sit Oil '
<	hrjRler . .	.
Citium f’lcT rt
<	oiuni Carlion Com !«' Conde Nn«t . . C*<»n*ol Oil .
<	ontlHii 1’lbrc Cont .Motor*.
<	ont’l Oil Del Crow n < orkAS Crown CAS pf C'unhmun 7pf, (’.utler lliim'r DrvorARny A Dome Mine* Dominion Ktrn
New Highs Drue, Inc....
Du Font de N Kiuttmitn ivoci. kiton Mfp Co Flee Stor But l.ndirott Jubn llurt'ku Vite’m j .v on* I‘ro<l*t h 1 itlrb’k* M pf FitMltlon PnrU
1 IrrMi on-'l of ! Honlirlm A FollntiMbee Hr ' Font er Wh'ler I I Film A .	,
Gabriel < t> A. Geii’l Brontr. I Gen Gn*£I2 B , (•rn Motor* Gen 1‘rlnt Ink Gotlnup 8 lit* Gothiimllo pf. Grunt. W T.. (•rlunbe (truno ItnudnlllrTI A Houdulllell B IndiiMt Itioon. Intrrhike Iron , Int Knprr 7pf Int Hr of C A I KelljSpr Tire < Krill spr T pf < Kel*i*% Un* A Krlrtet llii> B i Kelt Inutor . . Klmh’ly Clark I..O.F, GIiimb.
I.Hr Tulip . . .
I.	lquld Curb
J.	ocm V.tnc, pf McKrropt T P Mrhlllr Shoe Mrnrrl Co . . Mid-Font Petr Mln Hon'wrll. Nat*! Armr . Nnthinnt Steel yornndu Mln
New Low
Int Com Kpfrt
Northern Fite, Ohio OH . ... Op'nhclm Coll Oil* r.lt’Mitor Otln Steel. . OtU St’I pr l»f Otten* I <,in*ti Fiteibr Mltlw f'urinrlrel’nin I’etin Dix < em Pet Milk Pntlrlr Pipe I. ProducA K pf. Purr Oil • Rem lktnd 2pf Kepublh st j»f lie* ere Cop A Hitter Drotul. K<»«alu Inaiir.. Scott Pnper.. SeuRmre .... Sen rl, Inr. . . S Iih ran ** t H oop SlntntM Petrol Sterling <•▼ pf Sun Oil. . Superior Oil Superior Steel Si mlnjcLon A. Thompson Fro Fnlon	F.
I nltril < nrlion I'SAl'ttr’n 1pf I S J.fiithrr.
I r» ltubber pf FnlvJ.fTob pf lillcun Detin. Vulrun Det pf Warner Pirt** VI nrnrr Hr pf Wnrrrn F & J* Menton KI In Wberllnc Kt’i. White Rock... WllcoxKieh A Yule Town* Youncato'n Hh Zenith Jtadlo.
Col Brncon Oil |
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.