the Market
Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 18, 1933; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Abreast of
Market	Diary	
Call mnnej renewal ... .	Tuesday 1933	1932
Time money, 90 da>* Acceptance*, Bo day*. .	fi ** S	
	Mi K %	
Commercial paper		ims.	
Franca, cables . .	.....	.0576	.0392 S.
Sterling cable*,			4 86^	3 40A
New York bank rate . .	2^	2^«4i
Reserve System ratio ....	65 7<%	82 8%
Coffee. Rio. December.. ..	fi 45	6 38
Copper, delivered	... .	7\	8U
Conj. December	.. . .		25S
Colton, December		9 26	6 26
Hide*, December		8.60	4.8ft
L.ead, New York		4.25	3 00
Oata. December .	.	28H	15%
Rubber. No 1 atand’d Dec.	7 40	3.30
Bilk. raw. October. .	1 50	1 M
Bllver. New York	36 H	27%
Sugar, ra*. December . .	J 21	1 07
Tin. December	.	.	45 80	23 60
Wheat December .. ,.	74 K	48S
Wool top*. December . .	96 7	ft! 7
Zlhc. East St Louis	4 75	3 0ft
The Government took a direct hand in the commodities markets yesterday and, when news was flashed that It was purchasing grains, commodities and stocks reversed their downward trend and rallied sharply. The upturn In grains was the most spectacular, carrying wheat up around T'fo cents a bushel from the day's bottom prices. Stocks BWung over a fairly wide range, too. pushing ahead In the last half of the session. The alcohol stocks and the metal shares, which had been among the heaviest sufferers In the late stages of the downtrend, were the leaders on the advance. Trading was more active on the downside than on the upswing
Commercial Solvents, with an advance of around 2 points; National Distillers, up 7>M, Allied Chemical and DuPont were among the strong spots on the board. The gold mining company Issues were firmer, helped by a rise in the price of gold, and there were small gains elsewhere.
The markot had the benefit of a little encouraging news. Included In the overnight developments was the announcement of the fixing of prices for crude oil and products by Secretary Ickes, long anticipated and eagerly awaited by some sections of the oil Industry. Carload-lngs figures weren't entirely cheerful, but news from the Pennsylvania coal mining districts, which had been suffering from labor troubles was much hotter. Settlement of most of the labor trouble In that area, and at the National Steel Co.'s plant at Weirton, helped the market.
An easier tone prevailed in the market for the hlghest-grade railroad and public utility bonds. United States Governments were off, slightly. Issues which wore weak In the second-grade rail market in the previous session rallied some recovering most of the ground lost In the previous session. Foreign bonds were better.
December wheat, which sold as low as 67'/ closed at the top of 74’j. up the maximum. Other deliveries scored similar wide gains. Corn and oats also auvuuueu the limit, and rye was almost up the limit In Wlnnl p*Jg, tOO ws/hno* rallied sharply. Cotton advanced $2 50 a bale. French issues ruling conspicuously strong.
Foreign markets did better. While prices were mixed in London, some rallying power was in evidence. In Paris, the list was higher, with rentes strong.	’
Wheat Embargo a Pointed Gesture
Considering the fact that the Administration's program was designed to aid the farmer, above all others, the wheat embargo put into effect by Governor William Langer, of North Dakota, is a verj' marked gesture. It shows that the farm belt, which has shown a fighting disposition several times in the last two or three years, again is in a state of unrest. Since midJuly the prices of the things the farrnej- pio-duces have been in a downtrend, and prices for the things he purchases have been going up. The farmer and the political leaders who represent him again want action to reverse that state of affairs.
At first blush, Governor Langer's move seemed to bode ill for earnings of the three railroads with extensive mileage In North Dakota, the Great Northern. Northern Pacific and Soo Line. Later reports indicated that posBlbly onh as much as 15,000,000 bushels of wheat would be affected. Wheat already In country elevators con be shipped out of the state, in spite of the embargo, and the great majority of ♦hiw yonr’o rrnn nithnr nlrpndv hns hnnn mor. keted or is in country elevators
While wheat farmers naturally were disappointed with the reaction in grain prices, prices at country stations continued pretty high In comparison with a year ago. Governor Langer pointed out farmers were receiving 54 cents a bushel for wheat at country centers In North Dakota A year ago they were getting only 24 cents.
Price Fixing In Oils
Prices set by Secretary Ickes for oil and its produots were In line with expectations. One thing the fixing or prices will mean is that tue uii cuinpHniea wiii have nu inventory losses this year. More important, consumers will have to pay a little more for their oil. The rise in prices to consumers should not prove extensive. but advances In bulk gasoline prices over present quotations in the mid-Contlnent area amount to as much as 20%.
If any industry is suited to price fixing, the
oil Industry is. It has suffered intensely from price cutting. Its volume of business has held up much better than that of most industries, but profits have been whittled away by price slashing. Setting of minimum prices means the elimination of such tactics.
Success of this price fixing hinges on whether the volume of business will hold up at the higher prices. Consumers won’t be enthusiastic over paying higher prices for oil and its products if other commodity prices go lower.
Rail Earnings Ahead
For the majority of railroads, the September earnings reports, which will begin to appear in volume within a few days, should be distinctly encouraging, although they will not show as wide an Increase over the like 1932 month as did reports for the previous four months Traffic in September wasn’t as far ahead of the corresponding period of the previous year as it was in the preceding months, and railroads, in addition, started to lay out more money to make up deferred maintenance on 'plant ana equipment
A few roads should make excellent show, ings. September was a pretty good month for the Great Northern. The latter was helped by i another heavy movement of ore. For the country as a whole, traffic was heavier in September than in August, following the seasonal curve.
Early figures from individual roads indicate that traffic for the country as a whole last week was about the same as in the like week of 1932. Disappointment over the fact that traffic has fallen back even to the peak level of 1932 has been reflected in the price of railroad shares. It should be recalled, however, that the peak level of 1932 was later than usual, and that shippers are estimating that traffic, in the last quarter of this year, will run 15r; ahead of the total for the like period of 1932.
Support Met at July Low
Support buying, which has come into the market several times when industrial stocks near the July lows, made its appearance again yesterday during the weakness which swept the maiket downward at the end of the second hour of trading. The support buying yielded quick profits for some shrewd traders, as tne market spurted upward soon afLerward. aided by the right-about face in wheat prices
Downtrends in the industrial average have stopped four times just above the July low. set on July 22, at 88 42. On August 7 the Dow-Jones industrial average closed at 92 55, and the list rallied from that point. On September 27 ft got back to 93 IS, and then recovered On October 2 it dipped to 92 99, and on Monday, this week, a drastic decline carried the industrial average down to 90.49 at the close, less than 2 full points above the July bottom Even after yesterday’s recovery the industrial average was only a little more than 4 points above the July bottom
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are Included according to their latest report, and
orc not duplicated. Incerased earning*		Since Oct. 1 ... 6"	Additions yesterdav 21
Decreased earnings ...	....	31	2
Unchanged dividends _	...	87	9
Resumed dividends ..	,	. 6	]
Deci eased dividends ...		1
Increased dividends ..	... s	1
High and Lou* Trices
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, no stock made a new high, and five stocks (Capital Administration A, Gold Dust pfd , Hudson & Manhattan pfd., Laclede Gas, and Life Savers* made new lows, for the year 1938.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.