Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 26, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17	_
Abreast of
the Market
Market
Call money renewal . .. Time money, 90 day*.......
Acceptance*, 90 days......
Commercial paper . . . Frxnec, cables .
Sterllns cables .	......
Naw York bank rate..
Reserve System ratio. ....
Coffee, Rio. December .... Copper, delivered ........
Corn, December............
Cotton, December .........
Hides, December ..........
Lead, New York............
Oats, December
Rubber. No 1 Hand'd Dec. Silk, raw, December. . Silver. New York .	. .,
Suiter, raw, December ...
Wheat. December .	. .
Wool tops, December ... Zinc, Eas. St. Louis . ...
Diary ’
Wednesday
1933	1932
%'S	
% fi'%	
% V %	%fc>%*
1%«»%%	
.0565%	.0393%
4 73%	3.27%
2*	2%%
65.5%	61 3%
5 73	6 37
8%fi%	5%
47%	24%
9 08	6 31
8 90	& 10
4 15	3 00
37%	15%
796	3 38
1 &9	1 49
38%	26%
1 26	99
47 OO	99 40
86	44%
100 7	53 5
4 75	3 00®3 05
The Reconstruction Finance Corp.’s quotation of $31.36 an ounce for newly mined gold was somewhat lower than Wall Street optimists had forecast, but it did not put a quietus on the advance in security prices. The stock market opened mgaer, ana successive waves or heavy trading during the morning swept all groups of shares to new highs on the recovery movement. Copper, rubber, ptility and rail stocks wore in the front of the advance, leadership of the market shifting from group to group. Motor and steel shares also developed special strength. Gains in the leaders ranged from 2 to 5 points. Volume was up to 2,880,000 shares.
Profit-taking was in evidence in the early afternoon, but the list gave very little ground, and turned dull Gold shares were a little under their best prices, reflecting some disappointment over the price fixed for the metal.
In contrast to its wild gyrations of the previous day, the dollar was relatively steady In the foreign exchange market. Sterling lost a little ground, but gold currencies were higher against the American monetary unit.
Advancing prices for commodities helped to push the stock market ahead. Lead was jacked up 15 points, and copper continued tbe upward move, rising U to 3,a cent a pound in the domestic market. Grains showed a strong undertone throughout the day, and cotton was firm, although it lost some of the early advance.
Good loadings reports from New York Central and Pennsylvania helped the railroad shares. Both showed traffic well ahead of the like week of 1932, and Norfolk & Western also had a gain above a year ago. Utility output figures recorded a smaller percentage advance over the like 1932 week than has been the case recently.
Speculative bonds, particularly second-grade rail issues, were to the fore in the bond market. Industrial Issues were higher, too, and even the hlgh-grado rail and public utility Issues were steady. Governments continued their downward trend, while foreign gold issues rouged upward.
Wh^Rt rinsed not far from the day’s tons, up 3 to 3’* cents a bushel. The coarse grains followed the pace set by the leader, corn jumping 2 to 2>; cents and oats 1% to 2h cents a bushel. Cotton was marked up $1 a bale early and closed with an advance of 14 to 18 points.
Courtaulds and Distillers, Ltd., were two strong spots In the London list, with prices elsewhere irregular. In Paris, the market was quiet.
Price Cuts Due to End
With commodity prices again trending higher, price cutting in finished goods, which has broken out in two important lines recently, should come to an end.
Soap companies were the first. important units in industry to reduce their prices. Soap makers face reduced earnings in the current quarter as the result of the reductions made in their major line of laundry soap. The price cutting in tires, which has broken out in the New York area, would constitute a disturbing factor in the outlook If it spread to other cities.
Commodity prices moved higher all along the line yesterday, and such a rise means firmer prices for finished goods In addition, the President’s reiteration of his determination to bring higher prices may bring about another wave of public buying of finished goods Public buying, in September and October, proved a disappointment, and an upturn, later in the year, had I been forecast in some quarters.
Exchange Falls Early on Gold Trice
The price of $31.36 for an ounce of gold, set by the Reconstruction Finance Corp, as its inI itial quotation, proved a surprise to some foreign speculators In the dollar. Soon after the announcement of the price, both sterling and francs sagged off against the dollar
The Administration’s intention of keeping the American gold price slightly above the London gold price will have its difficulties. The London gold price represents the correlation between the price of sterling and the price of francs. It is affected by internal factors in both countries which bring about changes In the relationship of the two currencies A break in the franc, of course, means a lower gold price in London.
Whether with reason or not, the initial price of $31.86 for gold set by the Reconstruction Finance Corp, will come to be judged as the indicator of the progress of inflation in this country. Advances above that price should rouse inflationary sentiment, and declines below it would discourage it.
Vehicle for a Hedge
In some quarters, the American Rolling Mill
4^% notes are regarded as affording a good! hedge against any eventuality until April 30, < 1934. Under the company’s plan of refinancing these notes, declared operative some time ago,1 they are exchangeable for a new 5% note, each $1,000 note being convertible into 40 shares of American Rolling Mil! common.
The company has stated that any holder of note can exchange it for a new note or present It for payment, In cash, before April 30,1934. In other words, a purchaser of a 4%% note at current prices of around par Is protected in two ways' If business and prices don’t improve before the end of April, he can turn in his note and receive $1,000, losing only Interest from November 1 and commissions. If prices of the stock go up, he can exchange it for a new 5% note, bearing inter*!1** from November 1, 1933, and convert the note into 40 shares of American Rolling Mill common.
Solvents* Earnings Turn Up
Commercial Solvents’ income in the third quarter took an upturn paralleling the upswing In that of other chemical companies. Net was equal to 24 cents a share on the 2,530,371 common shares, against only 12 cents a share in the like period of 1932 and 16 cents in the previous quarter. The third quarter showing indicates Solvents will cover its 60-cent annual dividend requirements by a very good margin this year, for business has held up fairly well so far in the final quarter, and the last two months of the year should be good ones for the company,
Solvents is, of course, selling high in relation to current earning power at the present time. The price, however, reflects the hope of a wide gain in earning power if repeal goes through as expected. Solvents has the largest grain alcohol capacity of any company, with the maximum output of its plants in Peoria and Terre Haute, and the plants acquired through purchase of the Rossville Alcohol properties, estimated at around 50,000,000 gallons a year. This grain alcohol will be used for blending with whiskey and in making gin.
Government Bond Conversions Slow
Conversion of Fourth Liberty 4 ’4 s into the new 3U% government obligations is progressing at a slow rate. So far, only $488,000,000, or a shade more than 25% of the amount sought by the government, have been turned in for exchange. The figure doesn’t show the full amount which may be in process of exchange, but only records actual conversions which have taken place.
On results to date, the conversion Is a disappointment. In view of the unsettlcmcnt over the government's monetary policy, It isn’t surprising that holders of the Liberty 4*48 are unwilling to make the exchange at this time.
Publicity and High Salaries ,
Decision of the directors of the Chase National Bank to terminate, at the request of Albert H. Wiggin, the $100,000 a year pension voted to him colls attention to the fact that publicity on salaries, over the last few years, has caused some marked changes in them Publicity on the Bethlehem and American Tobacco bonus plans mused revisions in both, and publication of salaries received by railroad presidents was followed by action to revise some of them downward. Government salary regulation isn't needed. Stockholders, if they are fully informed on salaries, can bring sufficient pressure to force changes. After all, they are the ones affected by large salaries, and they are the ones entitled to pass judgment on payments to company officials. They have been quick to do so in the recent past.	‘
How The; Stand	‘
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with thoso for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
	Since Oct 1	Additions Yesterday
Increased earnings	..	...	171	23
Decreased earnings ,..	...	56	6
Unchanged dividends ..	....	137	
Resumed dividends ....	8	
Decreased dividends ,.,.		
Increased dividends ....	8	
Omitted dividends		2	i
Initial dividends 		2	1
High and Low Prices
Wednesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, five stocks made new highs and three stocks made new lows, for the year 1933.
New Highs AllfodChetn pt 1 McIntyre Poro I	Rnl pfita
Atlaa Jack . I Hpear ft Co pt I
New Lows
Hud * Man pt I MSrBSMLL ct | White Rock ..
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.