Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 9, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Abreast of
the - Market-
< \ _
Market Diary
'	Tuesday
1933
*1% -10M*
.0530 4.47%
2Mi% ^8.494
5.78
• *
58 U
9.72 3X50
4 00"
40 -
7.70
X'77»
36
1.42
43.90
08>4 4X00
5.00
Speculative interest in stocks was whetted by.the possibility that the conference between the President and hla close advisers on monetary affairs might be productive of something important, and the market moved forward in light trading yesterday, after an irregular .opening. ' A break of $2'50 a bale in ootton, following the appearance of-the government’s estimate-of the growing crop, .putting the outturn at about 1,300,000 bales above private forecasters* estimates, didn’t unsettle the stock market. Alcohol stocks, railroad issues and the motor shares did the best, with Chrysler setting the pace for the motors and the Union Pacific, New York Central and the Van Sweringen stocks leading the-way in the carrier share group. Gold diggers had a good day, Homestake jumping up 15 points. '	•
Trading volume still was low, but It topped the previous session by a’ good margin. Volume moved up to 1,230,000 shares, against 770,000 on Monday. -	-
News developments of the day rather favored the market. While carrier loadings reports showed traffic was running under the previous week, the slump, so far, is not pronounced. The willingness expressed by union leaders in Pennsylvania to urge men still on strike to return to work was a welcome development. The financial community bad been disturbed by the spread of labor troubles. The report of American Telephone on its long lines business for June, showing an Increase in gross over June, 1932, helped the stock and the market generally. Oil shares were neglected, due to the weakening in the products markets.
Best performers In the bond market were the speculative railroad Issues, which have been somewhat neglected recently. High grade rail and public utility issues held up well, but thi keenest interest was in the more volatile bonds. Government bonds were a trifle better. The foreign list was mixed.
Grains put in an erratic day. Wheat closed mixed. The September delivery was up % of a cent a bushel, and other deliveries Irregular. A last-minute rally canceled some of the losses occasioned by a sharp dip late in the session. Other grains were irregular. Cotton regained $1 of its losses, at the lows, closing off only $1.50 a bale.
The London market was little changed on the reopening after the lang holiday. 'Mining shares were higher, but tlie.restot the list-was uncertain. In Paris, the Bourse was quiet.
Directors are scheduled to take action around. August 24.	.	*
.	'Whisky '-Certificates in Demand
Certificates for whisky in bonded warehouses are coming- Into favor as a (new speculative medium. A group -ot partners In-oni Wall street house recently purchased 'certificates for 500 cases of bourbon whisky, offering participations to one or two favored customers. The investment In the 500 cases amounts to around 520.000. ...	. . ’	.
-	Cotton Withstands Selling
. Considering the fact that the government estimate of the cotton crop was more than 1O% above the average of the private crop forecasters', cotton acted extremely well. It sold off $2.50 a bale, but rallied near the close and was down, only $1.50 a bale. The success of the drive to cut -down production, under provisions of the Farm Relief Act, was attested to by the government’s estimate that 10,304,000 acres had been retired from production, cutting the estimated yield doWn 4,247,000 bales.
Without .the destruction of the growing crop, under government aegis, and helped by govern-, ment payments, the crop would have run to about 16,500,000 bales, a fairly sizable crop but still well under the record outturn of 1926, when around 18,000,000 bales were produced. In 1932. the' crop was 13,002,000 bales.	-
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declaration^,' follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are
included according io	their latest report, and	
are not duplicated.	Since July'l	Additions Yesterday
.Increased eamlncrs 				 277	9
Decreased earnings	.		 209	' 6 '
Unchanged dividends .		 231	10
Decreased dividends ..		 6	
Increased dividends .,		 13	i
Deferred dividends . ;.		 1	
High and Low Prices
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, seven stocks made new highs and no stock made a new low, for the year 1933.
New Highs
Alisa Tnck. I N S Ch a StL ! X' V Sto mienes s pt..' N X Bblpbldx. Warren 17*1* HnrblaonW pt
New Top for High-Grade Ralls
The performance of high-grade railroad bonds over the last few weeks, has been such as to attract merited attention. The gilt-edge issues have managed to work up from one high to another in the face of wide swings elsewhere. Monday, the Dow-Jones average of ten high-grade rail bonds made a new high for the year at 93.85. and reached anorher new top yesterday by a fraction of a point. The average now is only about five points under the best level of 1931.
Two factors have helped the market along. One is the comeback in earning power shown by the railroads. Insuring coverage of interest requirements on senior obligations. Another is the absence' of new offerings. Investment buying . is, therefore, concentrated in a • group of well-tried issues, not scattered over a steadily widening field.
.	Sellers Are Cautious
While there is some pessimistic talk around Wall Street over the immediate course of prices, those looking at the blue side of the picture are doing more talking than anything else, according to brokerage houses. Short selling has been negligible in amount recently. A clear indication of the scarcity of actual sellers is given by the light demand for stocks in the loan market. Stocks commanding premiums have been few and far between for days, and Monday not a single Issue in the active list was in sufficient demand to command any extra payment.
Sales Kealstance Encountered
One of the chain store groups has found some resistance to price mark-ups on the part of the buying public. In lines where stocks, laid in at low prices, have _ been exhausted, retail prices have been advanced, duo to the fact that replacement of inventories has been at higher prices for goods. Officials report that the unwillingness of the public, at the moment, to pay the higher ’ prices, is quite noticeable. Buying in lines where low prices still prevail is good. Some reluctance on the part of consumers to buy after price mark-ups was anticipated. It is hoped that, as buying power is enhanced, consumers will He more willing to meet the new price level.
Strength In Chesapeake' & Ohio
Among the rail stock*. Chesapeake & Ohio stood out early yesterday. Strength in the stock was based on the continued heavy movement of freight over the road, and the prospect that the July earnings report, which should make its appearance within ten days, should show unusually large net Income. The road’s net in June was equal .to 31? cents a share on the stock. Carloadings in July were just short of 10% above tho June level.
The unusually heavy movement of soft coal from the West Virginia Melds has been due, in part, to the extort ’of producers in that area to get coal out before the code for the industry, under the National Industrial Recovery Act, goes Into effect.' Tho code. If it makes important competitive changes between the northern and southern fields, will have an adverse influence on Chesapeake A Ohio and the other roads serving the West Virginia fields. Insofar a* the heavy shipment* of coal recently reflect "beating the gun" on the >code, freight movement over the Chesapeake A-Ohio, the Norfolk A Western and the Virginian has been' distorted.
Another factor in the rise of both Chesapeake A Ohio and Chesapeake Corp. 1* the proximity of dividend' meetings for both corporations.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.