Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 17, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Market	~Diaru	
		•
	3933	1932
Call money renewal.......	%%	1%
Time monej, 90 days			% © 1%
Acceptances. 90 days......	%%	%%
Commercial paper		1% %	
Francs, cables				.0563%	.0392H
Sterling cables	•	• - « I	4.54%	3 44%
New York bank rate	J	2%%	2%%
Reserve System ratio......	65.7%	63.8%
Coffee, Rio. December.....	6 30	6.40
Copper, delivered				8	
Corn. December			37%;	' 26
Cotton, December	..	8.77	6.25
Hides. December 				8.42	4 85
Lead, New York			4 40	3 OO
Oats. December		25 H	15*4r
Rubber, No. 1 etand’d Dec.	7.10	3.30
Bilk. raw. October.... ....	1 48	1.53
Silver, New York..			34%	27%
Sugar, raw. December.... ..	1.15	1.09
Tin. December		44.90	23 85
Wheat, December ........	69%	48%
Wool tops. December		©6 7	51 O
Zinc. Eat St. Louis		4.75	3.05
The securities and commodities markets got off to a bad start at the beginning of the new week, stocks slumping sharply in a renewal of heavy selling and grains tumbling back when the market met renewed liquidation after an early rally. While the picture of domestic conditions portrayed In the week-end news wasn’t particularly bright, there was nothing in it to account for the. heavy selling which broke out in stocks, even before the grain markets slumped In the late dealing's. Losses in the active issues reached six points or more, and the market showed no important rallying power.
The railroad stocks were the first to show acute weakness, and the heaviness in that group dragged the whole market downward. New York Central, Great Northern, Baltimore & Ohio and Erie were weak spots in the group. Among industrials, American Can, Steel common, copper stocks and the gold shares were the drab performers. Utilities made a better showing than any other group, but losses were chalked up in all the leaders of that section. During the early afternoon, and again in the last hour, the tape lagged as much as 6 minutes behind actual transactions.
The urge to convert equities into cash evidenced by the day’s trading possibly was due to wider assumption that the government’s bond conversion meant that the Administration would hold firmly to a hard money policy. While such an assumption does not seem entirely warranted, unquestionably those who had built up lines, in anticipation of further inflationary stops, were getting out of stocks.
Immediate business news was not bad. Early carloadings reports shewed a slight improvement in traffic over the previous week. One trade review figured steel operations were up 2%, and a 4fcw corporate earnings reports, for the third quarter, were good. Du Font was in that group. Unsettlement created by the disturbed conditions in Europe was, perhaps, responsible for some of the selling in various stocks.
The domestic corporation bond market suffered, too. Second grade railroad issues were the heaviest, but weakness cropped out elsewhere. United States Government bonds were steady, and foreign issues rallied, after an early break. The dollar soared ir the early exchange market.
All commodities were weak. Grains fell heavily late in the day after some early steadiness. Wheat closed off the maximum amount allowed for one day’s fluctuations, with December at the lowest price since May 22. Cotton fell, too. losing $2 to $2.50 a bale. All the coarse grams were weak, although corn w’as down only a little more than 1 cent a bushel.
In Pans, London and Berlin the markets were heavy. German bonds were weak in London, and British shares tumbled In Faris, rentes fell heavily, and in Berlin the list sagged off, but losses were not untfsually extensive.
Conversion Moves Aiding British Industry
The British capital market now is absorbing, week by week, sizable offerings of securities, largely issued by corporations to take advantage of low’ money rates and refund fairly high interest bearing obligations into those bearing a lower rate. New financing in England still is scanty, but conversion operations by corporations are making the capital market active. Corporations, of course, are benefiting substantially by these operations, for reducing fixed charges through refunding at lower interest rates means higher net income, even without any betterment in business.
The British government took the lead in such refinancing when it announced^ in late June, 1932, that it was converting the British War 5s into 3’as. From early July until early October, the London capital market was closed to new issues by Government order. When the conversion operation was completed, in Septem
ber, the capital market was reopened. Now, a year later, it is booming.
The United States Government, through the Fourth Liberty 4*4 conversion move, has taken a step similar to that of the British Government, and industry might be expected to follow the lead, except for two important factors. One is the uncertainty over Government monetary policy, in spite of the present ascendancy of the anti Inflationists, and the other is the Securities Act.
The refunding operations going on now in England are testimony to the slow improvement taking place in that country. Such slow Improvement perhaps isn’t suited to the American temperament, but it constitutes building on a flrm foundation.	w
Gold Price Down 10%
The price of S29 per fine ounce set yesterday by the Treasury for newly mined gold represents a decline of almost exactly 10% from the high of $32.28 made on September 20. The drop in the level of newly mineh gold has been followed, quite closely, by lower prices for the gold mining shares. The fall in the price of gold has been due to the rally in tbe dollar in terms of gold currencies.
Gold producers in this country now are feeling some minor increase in their operating coses, due to the generally higher level of prices prevailing. This is more than offset, of course, by the premium they are still getting. The reduction in that premium, however, if it holds, means that some of the rosy estimates of their earning power won’t be realized.
German Export Surplus Holds Up
In spite of the moves made by groups in various countries of the world to boycott German goods, due to the Nazi government’s operations. Germany’s export surplus pushed upward in September, showing a gain of almost 50% over August. Total volume of German foreign trade, in September, however, still was well under Septemoer, 1932, which was a rather discouraging feature of the monthly statement. Foreign trade figures of the United States have indicated a revival in the volume of foreign trade, and those of some European countries have tended to corroborate the United States figures, but Germany is not sharing in the expansion in total volume of trade.
■Work Ahead for the Brokers
While brokers had been prepared for some additional work on customers’ acounts, due to word continued in a circular from Washington they received 10 days ago, some were a trifle upset at the extent of the work their clerical forces might be called on to do under the Treasury’s request for complete data on individual acounts over the last four and one half ’years. They have the Treasury's assurance, however, that the work will be done “with the least possible burden” on clerical forces of brokerage houses.
The data assembled will afford the Government not only a new avenue of check-up on income tax returns, but will also furnish it additional information on general security trading. Such informatom might come in handy in the prospective study of the securities markets by Secretary Roper’s committee
C. & wO. Loadings Better
C. & O , the first road to turn in its loadings report, showed an improvement over the preceding week of about 1,100 cars in total traffic handled Traffic originated on its own lines was up even more than that, indicating a good gam in coal movement as result of some lessening in labor troubles. Loadings for the country as a whole in the October 7 week were relatively good, the decline from the previous week being due almost entirely to coal. Merchandise and less than carload lot freight traffic, the real indices of general business activity, were well ahead of the previous week. A general improvement m coal movement last week apparently occurred, and should make for a good loadings report.
Scattered Foreign Buying Reported
While one house with fairly extensive foreign connections reported yesterday little foreign business, two other sizable houses reported that foreigners were buyers on balance yesterday for the first time in several weeks. As yet, foreign interest in the American markets isn’t of great importance, apparently. Foreign selling of stocks, from mid-August to mld-Sep-tember, was quite persistent. While foreigners were showing some interest in buying equities Monday there was still some selling of American grains from abroad, particularly wheat.
Improvement for Bell System
The comments of Walter H. Gifford, president of American Telephone, accompanying the
company’s report for the third quarter, contained the cheering news that the Bell System, in September, showed a net gain of 53,000 telephones, the first net gain since September, 1931, but it had been pretty thoroughly discounted. Reports of individual companies in the system had indicated the turn in the company's installations.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Since	Additions
Oct. 1	yesterday
46	8
29	7
78	3
5	. .
2	1
2	..
Increased earnings........
Decreased earnings........
Unchanged dividends.......
Resumed dividends ........
Decreased dividends.......
Increased dividends........
High and Low Prices
Monday on the New York Stock Exchange two stocks. Interborough Rapid Transit and U. S. Tobacco made new highs and three stocks Life Savers, Pacific West Oil and Sterling Products made new lows for the year 1933.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.