Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 29, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Ioa«. IT the conversion la successful, some of the profits they have maae "through the spectacular rise -in the price of the Bonds "by a reduction in their income from interest.
'M.arket
CaU rooaey i*nq*i*l....... Time money, 90 day*........
Aec*pt*BC—, 90 day*...... Commercial paper......... Trane*, cables ............ Sterling cables............ New York; bank rate........
Xeserre System ratio.......
Coffee. JUo. March........ Copper, delivered..........
Coro. May...................
Cotton, March..............
Hide*. March...............
Lead. New York.............
Oat*. May..................
^Rubber, No. 1 stand'd Mar. Bilk. raw. March...........
Sliver. New York...........
Sugar, rtu. March..........
Tin. March ................
Wheat. May.................
Wool tops. March...........
Zinc, Eart St. Lout*.......
jyiary
Ttnxrodny	
1933	1933
	1%
	%%
	%©%%
	!%©%%
.0607%	.0390%
5.07%	-	3.31%
3%	2%%
63.9%	04.3%
6.62	5-79
8%	5
51%	26%
io.2«	6.10
10.45	4.85
4.15	3.00
37%	16%
9.12	3.25
1.34	.	1.36
44%	.	34%
1.24	O 71
52.20	22.30
S5“,	44%
104.2	52.5
4.35	3.125
Strength pervaded th^> securities markets yesterday, and stocks pushed forward impressively for good gains in relatively light trading. Du Font and Chrysler were two leading stocks which sot new highs for the year, and advances ran to as much. as 4 points in individual stocks. Industrials showed the widest gains, hut both the rails and the utility shares were strong, too.
Cash sales, for tax purposes, appeared frequently on the tape, running at times to almost 509& of the total trading, but they did not check the forward movement of the market. Opening prices generally were above Wednesday's close, reflecting some of the relief from the heavy volume of year-end operations accomplished in the regular way. After early Irregularity, the motor shares, some of the railroad equipment stocks and the utilities assumed leadership and lent strength to the whole list. Allied Chemical, Steel common. Telephone and the old-line leaders generally came to the fore In the late dealings.	i
Declaration of the usual 75-cent quarterly dividend by Consolidated Gas helped the entire utility list. The group, however, reflected the lifting of the weight of special pressure which has borne it down ever since early in the-month. Appearance of further good November earnings reports improved sentiment toward the rails. Speaker Rainey’s statement that he did not look for any regulatory legislation directed at the Stock Exchange at the current session also bolstered sentiment toward the market.
Railroad obligations led the forward movement in the bond market. Both high-grade and second-grade rail issues forged ahead, and other groups of domestic corporation issues pushed upward. Maintenance of the gold-buying price at S34.06 for the eighth consecutive day helped to hold government bonds steady. Foreign issues were irregular.
Wheat traveled through a narrow range in Chicago, but eased near the close. December was unchanged, with the two later deliveries down about cent a bushel. Coarse grains were mixed, barley closing higher. Cotton gained 2 to 4 points.
Industrial and utility stocks commanded higher prices in London. In Pans, trading on the bourse was quiet, with rentes steady.
Buying to Catch Seasonal Moves
Traders who watch seasonal trends and their influence on earnings of individual companies closely have been picking up some of the rail stocks, the oils and the fertilizer company shares during periods of heaviness in the general market. While the course of general busi
ness normally Lb upward in the spring, certain companies are benefited more than other by seasonal swings.
A number of railroads are now in the best period of the year, and their earnings over the next two months should make pretty gratifying reading. Southern roads, in particular, do their best business of the year in the first quarter. The leaders of the group are Atlantic Coast Line and Southern Railway, and both stocks have met buying recently.
Shipments of fertilizers don't begin In volume until early February. By that time, farmers are laying in supplies for the full year. Higher shipments, which mean expanding earning power, normally attract attention to the fertilizer shares in the early spring months.
The first two months of the year are the low volume months for the oil Industry, and it isn’t until March that gasoline sales begin to be stepped up. Shares of the leading oil companies usually respond to expansion in oil companies* business. A spring move in the oil stocks is one of Wall Street's traditions.
Ycar-End Mark-Ups Help Trusts
Year-end mark-ups in Individual stocks have been noteworthy affairs since the inception of the invesment trust. Even before then, markups in a few common stocks often occurred at the year-end, bolstering collateral loans backed by large blocks of one issue. In recent years, the final day's trading of the year has witnessed some firm markets. Investment trusts benefit, for their portfolio values are boosted and the value of their stocks are lifted thereby.
Exchange’s Ruling on Options
Changes in listing agreements adopted by the Governing Committee of the Exchange are salutary, and should help to relieve the Exchange from some of the criticisms which have been directed at it in the past. Particularly in regard to options is the Exchange’s move praiseworthy. It doesn't go the whole way, because the new ruling applies only to stocks listed after the effective date, but it will give stockholders in such corporations additional information which is of distinct value, and should prove a brake on pool operations, and trading against options, in general.
Monthly notice to the Exchange of the amount of stock acquired or reacquired by a corporation, for its own account, will keep companies from trading promiscuously in their own stocks and should prevent the carrying out. in secret, of operations to which stockholders should have had access to full information.
Dutch Conversion Major Operation
The Dutch East Indies conversion offer Is the second largest of the foreign loan conversion operations undertaken by governments to take advantage of existing world low money rates. Holders of approximately $122,000,000 of the bonds, on a dollar par basis, are to be asked to exchange bonds bearing 5^% and 6% interest for a 4% Dutch East Indies loan, fully guaranteed by the Netherlands The S'-is and 6s were floated in this country, but dollar depreciation for a time enabled Dutch purchasers to repatriate the bonds at attractive prices This has ceased, practically, now, as the bonds arc around 150.
The heavy repatriation of the loan which nas taken place should facilitate the conversion operation. It is exceeded in size only by the British refunding move Initiated in the summer of 1933. when 5^% obligations were exchanged for	Treasury obligations. Amer-
ican holders of the Dutch East Indies bonds will
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and of dividend declarations compared withJthe previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Since Additions
Increased earnings .. Decreased earnings . Unchanged dividends Resumed dividends . Decreased dividends Increased dividends . Omitted dividends ... Initial dividends ...
yesterday
4
*7
1
Oct. 1
387
204
555
59
11
71
12
7
High and Low Brices
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, ten stocks made new highs and four stocks made new lows, for the year 1933.
Ran<or & Ar. t Bohn Alumin I Bora Wbiw . | Chrysler .... I
Cont Motor*.. | rod I. a 1 pf I
New High* Dot & B Ipf du Pout do N £1 & Mu In.
New Lows Hall Prlntlnr.
Ma rl tn Roc Jew Mln flan’wrll. Wottm FyAP
KanCTALprB
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.