Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 3, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 2
industrial
in
and the the fea-Tbe dy-
Spectacular advances more speculative railroad bonds were ture of trading in securities yesterday, parole upswing in bond .prices helped to bring about an extension of the forward movement In stocks in a -boiling market, with trading running to 6,880,000 shares for the session, the third largest of the year.
The widest moves were in preferred stocks. Allied Chemical was the feature in the old line market leaders, soaring 10% points in a quick uprush. Du Font, General Motors and Steel common touched new highs. As a group, utility stocks were the stellar performers, but packing company shares also surged ahead to new high ground.
Trading In bonds was at near record levels, and gains were ^fide. American & Foreign Power, International Telephone and Remington Rand issues were among the features in the domestic corporation list. Second-grade railroad issues made new highs, while the highest grade bonds did little. Governments advanced, after early irregularity.
The performance of the market itself since the minor set-back two sessions ago, and the excellent trade reports were major factors in the new upswing in the general list. In addition, a bullish construction was placed on the weekly bank statements. The most important of the day’s industrial news was word from the steel centers forecasting another Increase in the operating rate of the industry next week. Both in Cleveland and Youngstown, sizable gains are indicated. The continuation of the upturn in the industry is entirely unseasonal.
Prospects for a good carloadings report tomorrow and reports of industrial wage increases also served to bring new buying into stocks.
Leadership shifted from group to group swiftly. In the morning, the coppers were the leaders again, and then the utilities came forward with a rush, led by International Telephone and American & Foreign Power. Allied Chemical was in the limelight in the afternoon, and the gold stocks marched forward in the late dealings, with Homestake finishing at 230, up 20.
Commodities did little. Wheat finished up % to off % and corn was fractionally lower. Cotton was up almost $1 a bale at one time, and finished at gains of 1 to 12 points.
Advancing prices were the rule abroad. In Paris, trading yvas active and prices higher. In London, the market was firm, with a rise in German obligations a feature of the bond market.
dustry. The chief sufferers in the depression have been the daily workers in Industrial plants, and business should see to it that they'are the first beneficiaries of the betterment in general industry.	’
Trading in Big Blocks*'
The tape was studded with big blocks of stock during tbe violent forward move in stocks in the late morning yesterday. Huge blocks of utilities, like United Corp., American Power & Light, North American, International Telephone and America" Water Works changed hands. Radio and General Motors were two other stocks in which transactions involving big lots took place. A block of 10.000 shares of Radio changed hands at'9. followed within a moment by nytot-hef block of the same-size at the same price.	- -
Brokers* Loans Rise and Market
The rise in brokers* loans, putting them to a new High for the year of $635,000,000, makes the latest loan figure $226,000,000 above the total for the corresponding period of 1932. The advance over a year ago amounts to 55.7%, and it is not large when compared with the upswing in the market during the same period. The Dow-Jones industrial average is currently 97% above the figure at which it stood at the close of the period covered by the loan figure a year ago, and the rail average is roughly 126% above the corresponding 1932 level.
How They Stand	”
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest	’
are not duplicated.
report, and
Since April 1 576 192 542 48
9
6 4
Prices
Friday, on the New York Stock
403 stocks made new highs and one stock made a new low, for the year 1933.
Decreased earnings........
Increased earnings ........ Unchanged dividends.......
Decreased dividends.......
Increased dividends.......
Initial dividends.......
Omitted dividends ........
High and Low
Additions yesterday 7 5 20
1
Exchange,
Only a Year Ago
The June market this year should be peculiarly interesting, for it comes just one year after stocks entered a narrow price range and a brief period of accumulation, preparatory to the sharp rise which occurred in the late summer and early fall. That rise was touched off by the agreement, reached at the Lausanne Conference, ending reparations payments by Germany. Heavy European buying came into our securities markets before and just after the agreement was announced, and foreign buyers for the long-pull have been	*
warded for their foresight.
The Dow-Jones industrial low of 44.74 on May 31, and sank to 14.10 on June 1. June month rally in prices, but both railroad and industrials eased off as the month closed. The industrial average fell under the May 31 bottom, and on July 8, when the low was set, closed at 41.22. The rail average never dropped a full point under the June 1 low, although it did get down to 13.23 on July 8. As was pointed out in this column at the time, the resistance shown by the rail average, and its failure to confirm by a full point the decline of the industrial average, was an extremely constructive development.
Prices for some stocks prevailing at the close June 3, 1932, make interesting comparison with current levels. The really spectacular gains have been in stocks which were suffering then because of low commodity prices, and hrve benefited enormously by tbe rise in staples. Closing prices on June 3, 1932, for a group of stocks were Allied Chemical, 50 Vi ; Atchison, 27%; du Font, 27%; J. I. Case, 19%; Chesapeake & Ohio, 12%; Goodyear, 6%; Kennecott. 5%; New York Central. 9%; National Distillers. 13; Montgomery Ward, 14%; American Telephone. 86%; United Aircraft, 7%; United Fruit. 12; American Rolling Mill, 3%, and Armour of Illinois preferred, 4.
Allied Chemical Fight Looms
The move made by a group of substantial holders of Allied Chemical brings into -ue open a fight over the management’s policies which up to this time had been carried on behind the scenes. It lines up, with the New York Stock Exchange and other outside interests which have attempted to force .the Allied management to give greater information on tbe company's affairs, an important group of the company’s own stockholders, and a group which has for a long time been identified closely with Allied Chemical.
The statement issued by the committee representing tbe protesting stockholders puts the complaint* against the Allied Chemical management’s stand on corporate publicity in telling and succinct fashion. The statement declares that the present management does not give stockholders information to which they are fairly entitled, and that the only method of changing that situation is to make changes in the directorate.
The stockholders* committee is not only fighting for the principal of wider Information on the company’s affairs. It has an important stake in that, if the company fails to comply with the Exchange’s request for information in the allotted time, Allied’s common and preferred stocks are to be removed from the list.
Wage Increases Swift
One of the encouraging things about the upturn in business is that some of its benefits have been Immediately transferred to factory workers. The Increase in wage rates to Buick and Olds employes, both divisions of General Motors, is an example, and there is talk of an Increase in wages for employes in the steel ia-
enormously rc-
averagc made a the rail average witnessed a mid-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.