Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 17, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
in
Without any material change
_	±he news
setting for the markets, stocks and commodities staged strong upward movements yesterday, stocks turning in the best performance in several weeks. Fluctuations in the foreign exchange market were rapid and wide, as they have been for days; there was no important- change in the business news, and the bond market remained extremely heavy, with United States obligations weak.
After getting off to a ragged start. In dull trading, the list firmed up in the afternoon and pushed forward rapidly. A. T. & T., up more than 3 points; Du Font, up 5; Allied Chemical, the alcohol shares and the metal, oil and rubber stocks were the leaders in the advance. In the metal group, International Nickel was a feature, reaching a new high for the year. Socony-Va-cuum, at a new top for 1933, was the star performer among the oils, and Standard of New Jersey was another very strong spot. Railroad stocks were higher, but utility shares did little. Farm implements were buoyed by the rise in wheat, Case leading the upswing. Trading volume advanced, and the ticker lagged behind.
Early in the day, the dollar sank heavily, with the pound rising to above $5.51, a new high. The Reconstruction Finance Corp.’s quotation of $33.56 a fine ounce on gold, the	suc-
cessive day at that figure, put a mild brake on the rise early in the day. Late in the session, the dollar turned strong, with sterling and franc quotations dropping rapidly. The strength in the dollar failed to check the advance in stock prices. After the stock market close, the dollar rocketed upward, with sterling tumbling below $5.30. Rumors of new restrictions on purchases of foreign exchange were rife in the financial district.
Dividend news favored the market. Texas Gulf Sulphur directors increased the quarterly payment to 50 cents from 25 cents. International Harvester voted the regular common payment. and there were other cheerful dividend items. On the business side, a few’ encouraging items appeared, including word that' store sales, early in November, had shown an appreciable betterment.
The domestic corporation bond list was heavy again, prices easing all along the line. Foreign bonds ranged upward, but United States Government issues sagged. •	.
After irregularity in the morning, grains rebounded sharply, and closed not far from the day’s highs. Wheat finished up	to ISA’
cents a bushel: com gained to l’/i cents, and other coarse grains added from fractions of a cent to more than a cent a bushel to their value. Cotton w’as 11 to 15 points higher.
Heaviness ruled the foreign markets In London, mining shares were among the weakest on the list. In Pans, the whole market dropped lower in quite active trading.
Nickel Hitting Its Stride
International Nickel’s earning power has come back in decided fashion, its upturn outstripping by a wide margin the improvement in general business. Net for the September quarter was the highest for any September quarter since the corresponding three months in 1929. and was the best for any period since the first quarter of 1930. In no country where Nickel’s products are widely used has the general business level come back in corresponding fashion.
This discrepancy is due largely, Robert C Stanley, president, said, to a steadily widening use of nickel alloys. Particularly in the construction pf bridges, mining, oil and agricultural equipment has the demand increased for nickel alloy steels possessing toughness and strength under increasing stress. As long as the trend is maintained toward greater speed in trains, planes and ships and stronger bridges, the demand for such materials should increase steadily.
September quarter net equal to 22 cents a share on the common, helped the stock during periods of strength in the market yesterday. It rose to a new 1933 high, with trading heavy and big blocks appearing on quent intervals.
Selling in Commonwealth
While Commonwealth &
the tape at fre-
steady yesterday it met considerable selling. Early in the session, a block of 10,000 shares changed hands at 2, unchanged from the previous close, and smaller blocks appeared on the tape from time to time. Publication of the commercial and industrial rates offered to Tupelo, Miss., under the contract negotiated with the Tennessee Valley Authority didn’t help Commonwealth & Southern. The contract is to be the model for other municipalities to be served by TVA. On the basis of the published TV A contract, it was figured that Tupelo would pay 60% less for the same amount of power It was receiving from the Mississippi River Power Co., a Commonwealth & Southern subsidiary, than it did to the private company.
Winding Up the Bond Pool
In view of all the uncertainties surrounding the outlook for bonds, the decision to wind up the affairs of the American Securities Investing Corp, was quite a natural one. Organized in June, 1932, the corporation was an important factor in supporting a weak bond market at that time, and saw securities which it had purchased. particularly some of the second grade railroad issues, increase enormously in value.
The corporation, sponsored by J. P. Morgan & Co., was capitalized at $100,000,000, with the important banks in New York, and some in tho interior, participants in it. Subscribers were called on to take up $35,025,000 of the corporation’s debentures, through calls issued from time to time.
In retiring $28,020,000 principal amount of the debentures at 105, the corporation will pay out actually $29,421,000. This leaves only $5,604.000, or 16% of the total originally subscribed, unaccounted for. How extensive the resources of the corporation are to cover this has not been revealed.
Three interest payments have been made. On December 1, 1932, a declaration of 2^% was made, and one of l^t.% was voted on 1933. Another declaration, this time of been voted, payable December 1, next, ture holders have received a total of 7% capital in about 18 months.
June 1, 3%, has Deben-on their
New Capital Issues at I^ow
The fall in new capital issues in October to a record low since compilation of monthly figures was begun by Dow-Jones calling attention again to the effect of monetary uncertainties and the Securities Act on new financing. Since Congress passed the measure, capital financing has dwindled steadily, and the October volume of $5,383,310 was uie lowest since September, 1932. Normally, rising business would have witnessed some resumption of capital financing, but with the Securities Act in effect, this hasn’t been the case. Stock financing accounted for all the activity there w’as in the capital market last month. No bonds or notes were offered, and no refunding operations were attempted. In more normal times, with money rates as low as they are. bond refunding operations would be expected.
Canadian Wheat Buyers Profit
Buyers of wneat in Winnipeg oegan to reap a harvest in two directions yesteiday. With Canadian dollars rising sharply against • the United States monetary unit, and with wheat going up in Winnipeg, American purchasers were making money on both their currency, in terms of dollars, and in the grain. A full lot of 5,000 bushels of wheat could have been purchased for around $3,000 recently.
Canadian American
The rise in currency alone means a profit, in money, of a little better than ~>r,r in
the last two days, or $150, to-"say nothing of his potential profit-on the rise in the grain.	.
Secretary Wallace a Realist
Secretary Wallace’s comments on the possibility of large sales of cotton and livestock to Russia if an agreement on recognition is reached demonstrated once more that the Secretary is a realist. He cited the fact that Russia can only pay us for our goods by exports of its own goods to the United States, unless we want to embark on another bout of lending a country money to enable it to pay us. Russia’s ability to export to this country revolves around a lowering of our tariff, Mr. Wallace stated.
Brokers' Loans at Early June Level
Brokers’ loans figures, made public after the close of the market, showed that the total had fallen to $707,000,000, the lowest figure since the week ended June 7, just before the start of the last big rise in stocks on the spring upswing. Since the high for the year, made in the week ended July 19, loans have tumbled $260,000,000, a drop of 27%.
The level of the market, at the close of the period covered by the latest loan figures, showed very little change from that prevailing in the first week of July. The industrial average was about 4 points above the average July 7, while the rail average showed a lecline of about 5 points.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated.
Since Oct. 1 322 149 288 21 3 21 3 5
Additions vesterday 1 6 11
Increased earning's .. Decreased earning's . Unchanged dividends Resumed dividends . Decreased dividends Increased dividends . Omitted dividends .. Initial dividends ....
1
High and Low
Atlnntlc Ilrfln IUocim’jrd 7pf. Cnnttnnnt Can JTfth Arc Bu* Fn*rp't 3 «•««» IXnzcl At Inn .
Rocony Vnr’m.
Mid OH or 5 J Sun OH
Tria* Gulf Sn TidcW A»o pf
United < urbon
Prices
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 18 stocks made new highs and new lows, for the year 1933.
New Highs Inter’! Nickel. I Nntlonat &.end | Pntlno Mines. Pirelli Co.... |
t*roc*t«*r&G pf al 1»Utch <*t	1
Now Lows
People* fin*. J I*ul»**erN.T 7pf . FubSerNJ 8pf
10 stocks made
T.n«*Irdf> Gnu.
Nor Am H<1 pf Alb A busquc Puclllc
Ron Calif Ed Unit Corp pf Waldorf syat
& Southern Southern held
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.