Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 27, 1933;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
	Monday	
	1933	1932
rtn«w»l.......		
Tnne money, 30 dayV......	1%	
Acceptances, 90 Says......		
Ti»r>*r		
Vi	raN«a 		.....		.0393%
				s ,41;	3.81%
New Toxic bank rate			2%%
Reserve system ratio.....^	ea.s«v	59.3%
Coffee. Rio. July			.	srfes	8 38
CoDDer. daltverart ......			s	5%
Corn, July................	32U	28%
Cotton, July ..............	10.30	5.21
HMn; September		12.25	3.65
Lsprt. New York..........	4.20	3 00
July		42	39%
^■StfcCbber, No. 1 stand’d July	6.27	2.55
*^SlDc. raw, July		2.17	1.11
Silver. New York........ .	35%	26%
8osar. taw, July		1.44	0.86
Tin. July		42.80	38.70
Wneat, July			89%	48
Wool tops. July		90. GO	49 00
Ztxxc, Rast BL Xxrals		4 3S&4.4Q	’S.TS
cotton, with.
Soaring prices for grains and wheat nearing the $1 a bushel mark and cotton above 10 cents a pound, brought an extension of the rise in prices for securities in the opening session of the new week. Gains in some stocks closely allied with commodity prices, like J. I. Case, International Harvester, Sears-Roebuck and Montgomery Ward-ran up to as much aa 6% points. The alcohol company shares did as well, with National Distillers up 7^i points at the close, and chemical company stocks also were strong. Trading volume increased on the upswing, with transactions reaching 4,530,000 shares.	“
Demand for stocks was strong from the start, and the leadership of the market was rotated from group to group. Rails were firm early, then the steel stocks pushed forward, under the leadership of Bethlehem Steel and Steel common. In the last hour, honors were shared by the alcohol stocks and the oil shares.
The course of bond prices was upward, with railroad issues in the van. Junior railroad bonds were helped by the prospect of another week of good loadings reports. High-grade issues, both utility and railroad, ranged upward. A rally in German bonds, similar to the advance which took place in London, was the feature of the foreign list. Government bond Issues were irregularly lower.
Grains closed at close to the day’s highs in Chicago, with July wheat up 7&r cents a bushel. Gains in the other deliveries were of similar proportions. Other grains were strong, and cotton finished up $4 a bale. ‘ Strength pervaded the foreign markets.
London, prices for stocks and bonds were uniformly higher, and in Baris stocks were strong while rentes lagged.
While the spectacle of skyrocketing prices for grains and cotton was the most important factor in extending the upward movement in stocks, the market had the benefit of numerous favoring items. May earnings reports of some of the leading carriers showed spectacular improvement in their earning power, and loadings estimates, covering the week ended June 24, showed that traffic was still on the increase. Sterling swung in a narrow range and showed only	-	-	-	-...............
level, steel were high.
all
In
a small change from Saturday's closing The week-end steel reviews showed that operations for the country as a whole up to 51% of theoretical capacity, a new
The Code of the Retailers
One section of the code of ethics prepared by the National Retail Dry Goods Association to put the dry goods, department stores and specialty stores in the organization under the provisions of the National Recovery Act is something of a thrust at R.	.	- .
section declares that the or representation “which of continuing practice of competitors is an unfair tice.” —	- -	-	■
U. Macy & Co. The use of any statement lays claim to a policy generally underselling and uneconomic prac-The Macy advertising, with its tenor of
^“6% less”, long has ‘been a thorn in the side of its competition, and was somewhat modified recently.
The minimum wage and hours of service regulations laid down in the code make no important change from the conditions prevailing in the better grade stores. Their enforcement, however, will prevent unfair competition from stores imposing longer hours at lower wages. The existence of such unfair competition is one of the factors which has forced price cutting in the last three years.
Canadian Pacific and Nickel
Steady buying has come into Canadian Pacific and International Nickel in the last few weeks, influenced in part by the fact that purchases of these stocks constituted something of a hedge against dollar depreciation. The two stocks are “world market** stocks, traded in both here and abroad. Both of them are leaders of Canadian industries, and both will share in the recovery in Canada, as well as in any recovery here. While the wheat crop outlook in Canada is not as rosy as it was last year, Canadian Pacific will be helped by the additional 10% wage cut effective May 1, granted by the Board of Conciliation. A controversy has developed over the board's ruling, but an amicable adjustment is looked for. Over a long term, Canadian Pacific will be aided, too, by the Ottawa trade agreements. ‘
International Nickel showed a small loss in the first quarter, but a fair profit is looked for in the current quarter. In late May two electrolytic refineries in Port Colbome. Ontario, were started up, the direct result of improving business, which had reduced the company’s stocks on hand. The boom in motor production is one thing which has helped the nickel industry enormously.
•Mali Order, Farm Implement Shares Soar
Skyrocketing prices for wheat brought a rush of buying into the mail order and farm implement shares, with J. I. Case, Montgomery Ward and Sears-Roebuck all pushing ahead to new highs for the advance. Trading in the stocks was extremely large, particularly in Ward and Sears. On a string involving 8.700 shares, Montgomery Ward ran up from 24% to 25. and another block of 10,000 shares changed hands at 25 a moment later.
Excellent May Reports
May was a big month for both the Great Northern and the Southern Railway. An excellent showing by Southern Railway is normal for the month, but even in fairly good years the spring months arc not big revenue producers for Great Northern. The report for the past month for both roads confirmed the complete change in their position and the vast improvement in their prospects.
In the first six months of 1932 Great Northern had an operating deficit of $3,082,979. This year the company should show a sizable net operating income for the first six months. While the outlook for a big movement of wheat in the fall has been upset by the bad weather, cutting down production sharply, the company will continue to have the benefit of higher ore loadings. The big ore movement was largely responsible for the excellent May showing, with net operating income at $1,001,883, compared with an operating deficit of $775,270 in the similar month of 1932. Orc traffic was higher in June than in May, again helping the road.
For the full year 1932, Southern .Railway had net operating income of only $4,406,268. For the first five months of this year the road has reported operating income of $4,837,683. While the summer months are usually slow for the Southern, it is still getting the benefit of heavy textile shipments and movement of general freight, due to the quickening in business.
Market Anomaly
One of the anomalies in the market recently has been the contrast in the action of American Locomotive common and the preferred stock
•Of the same company. The common has made new highs almost daily, and yesterday closed at 30%, up 2%. In the last 10 days the stock has appreciated almost <50% in value. The preferred closed at a rew high of 53% yesterday, a quarter of a point above the previous high. While the preferred has had a sizeable rise in the last 10 days, it has been extremely small in comparison with the percentage advance in the common. Dividends on the prefersed stock are cumulative and the last dividend was paid September 30, 1932. Accumulations on the preferred now amount to more than $5 a share.
In New High Ground
Both the Dow-Jones industrial and railroad averages pushed yesterday into new high ground for the recovery, bettering the June 12 highs by more than a full point. The Industrial average, at the cdose of 98.49, was 1.74 above the Jone 12 close, and the rail average, at 45.46, was 1.03 above the June 12 top. Three times since June 12 the rail average has closed fractionally above the June 12 finish, but the industrial average did not penetrate until yesterday.
How They Stand
Earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and
are not duplicated.		
Increased earnings		. Since April 1 ,	252	Additions Saturday 20
Decreased earnings		.	644	6
Unchanged dividends		.	879	12
Decreased dividends		.	71	
Increased dividends		. 20	
Initial dividends 			. 8	
High and Lou	? Prices	
Monday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 111 stocks made new high and no stock made a new low, for the yeilr 1933.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.