Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 2, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
3034	3033
1*	1*
4*01*	
%OA*	%©%*
KOI*	1%O1%*
.0659%	.0535
5.03%	4.53%
i%*	2%*
69.3%	68-4*
8.05	5.80
9	9
71	56%
33.12	10.36
3.03	13.00
3.75	4.50
46%	41%
14.74	7.85
1.09%	1.82'
46%	35%
1.76	1.37
51 35	43.40
1.03%	1.00%
82.2	03.5
4.30	5.00
Strength in the commodity markets, particularly in grains, and a slight lifting of the pessimism which has enveloped tbe financial community, enabled stocks to encompass a modest rally in the first trading session in August. -A zew ox me leaoera movea .up more man 2 points, and quite a number showed advances of more than a point. Gold mining r-nmpnny shares were among the best performers, and other metal issues met sufficient buying to push them forward. General Motors and Chrysler moved ahead more than 1 point apiece, and California Packing reached a new high for the year. Tobaccos were lifted from fractions to more than a point; oil stocks were firm, and chemicals and electricals ranged higher.
For the first time in about two weeks railroad shares showed more than momentary rallying power. New York Central. Northern Pacific and Atchison were the best, but the recovery in the group - was not extensive. Utilities moved up. Telephone rising" more than a point. Trading volume was small again, totaling only 780,000 shares.
On the business side, the most cheering item was the gain in electric output over the corresponding week of 1933 and the relatively good showing made by the rate of production in the central industrial region. Carrier traffic reports indicated loadings would be below the level of the preceding seven days. The financial community is hopeful that the President’s return may bring a shift In the Capital winds, but it has little on which to base its desires. So far as business goes now, industry is feeling the effects of the seasonal slump and with operating costs high, third quarter reports are going to be poor unless there is a sharp lift in the business level in September.
The United States Steel Corp, report for the second quarter and the declaration of a dividend by Inland Steel, helped the steel group. Sugars, particularly Cuban American preferred, were buoyed by strength in the staple. The gold stocks had strength in the metal in London to help them on.
Speculative bonds were the best performers in the domestic corporation bond market. High grade rail issues did little, while utility obligations moved up, German bonds were heavy again, with Argentine issues strong. Rankstocks were higher.
Strength in Winnipeg and Liverpool helped the grain markets to score wide advances. Wheat, in Chicago, spurted sharply in the latter part of-the session "and closed not far from the day’s highs, up 2% to 2 Vi cents a bushel (new contracts). Corn was up more than 1 cent, and other coarse grains were higher. In Winnipeg, wheat advanced 1V4 to 1% cents. Cotton finished 5 to 9 points higher, rubber futures were up and silver rose both here and abroad.
Prices again were heavy in Paris, in quiet trading. In London, the market was a ’■had*-better.
Hupp Motors’ report for the second quarter of 1933 illustrates the difficulties the .mnii.r units in the motor industry are having in maat-ing the competition of the major companies. Hupp showed for the quarter a loss of $736,841, compared with a loss of $742,526 in the first quarter and one of $258,435 in the second quarter of 1933.
Hupp’s new models were fairly warmly received at the Automobile Show in New York early this year, but the registration figures for the first six months of the year tell the story. Hupp’s registrations, through most of June, totaled 2,o06, against 3,396 cars in the comparable period of 1933. The industry as a whole reached its low point in 1932, but Hupp’s registrations for this year so far are under thoae for the comparable period of 1932.
Hupp jsn’t the only independent which has suffered a contraction in its business while the industry, as a whole, was going forward. Add to this increased expenses and the result is smaller profits or increased losses.
up by tbe sharp increase in the installation-of electric refrigerators. In addition, sales- of household equipment in the first half of this year were large, and domestic consumption has held up. remarkably well. Increased use of power by domestic consumers is the most favorable aspect of tbe utility situation at present.
The Pattern Makers’ Strike
The walk-out of 700 pattern makers in Detroit comes a little early to affect production of 1935 automobile models, unless the m—- yi--a long strike. Work,on 1935 models is still in tbe preparatory stage, and it will be some time before it will be absolutely necessary to have patterns made. The early calling ot tbe strike too, will give motor .manufacturers a chance to let out their work elsewhere if it is apparent a long walk-out is planned.
The tool and die makers* strike, which begun in the fall of 1933, caught the motor makers unawares and caused serious delays in the introduction of new models. Work normally done in Detroit was let out elsewhere in some cases. -Manufacturers could resort to .such a procedure again. The tool and die makers' strike, came too, at a time when the industry was rushing preparations for new models. Thia is not the case now. _	.	■
Sugar Moves Up
A new high for Cuban sugar indicates that Cuban ’producers, which have the market in their control now. are still goings slow about disposing of this year’s crop. They are waiting, and hoping, for signing of the trade treaty with Cuba, on which hearings have been concluded. In trade circles belief still is held that the treaty, when approved, will provide for the 50% reduction in the duty allowed under the law, which would pare the payments by Cuban pr<> ducers to 0.9375 cents. If this happens, tn. trade looks for a rise in Cuban raws to around 2 cents a pound. In some quarters, approval of the treaty within three weeks is’ anticipated.
How They Stand	-
Number of earnings reports of leading companies, compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow: Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
Since July 1 292 ,	153
191 19 5 10 11 1
1
_	Prices
Wednesday on the New York change, two stocks made new highs stocks made new lo-ws, for the year
New Highs I Grn Mill, nr. 1 New Lows
Snnfd [ ClieeJker Cnb. !>m»rr Mfx I Jonn A 1_ pf I
Increased earnings ........ Decreased earnings ....... Unchanged dividends .......
Increased dividends ......
Reduced dividends ........ Accumulated dividends ..,. Resumed dividends.........
Omitted dividends ........
Initial dividends .........
High and Low
California Pic*
Am fl X L pf Am Woolen pf Atl G & W | Ati*» luck..
Additions yesterday 17 9 11
1
1
1
Stock Ex-and twelve 1934.
Midland pf Panhandle pf-Roan An'lope. West Dairy A
The Steel Outlook
Hopes for a turn for the better in the steel operating rate by the middle of this month are being modified, with the prognosticators now figuring on September as the first month likely to show some betterment The industry is depending largely on tonnage for new automobile models to furnish the upturn, and that is not likely to come into the market until September. Poor earnings and higher wages and general costs make prospects for further railroad equipment purchases gloomy. Structural steel business has shown a slight improvement recently, but sustaining the level ot business in this department depends largely on Public Works contracts and other government spending.
J August and the Market
A check-up of market history for more than two decades shows that, on past performance. August should see some improvement in the price level for stocks. In view of the way the market ignored precedent in July, however, traders aren't putting much faith in past performances as a basis for making commitments at the present time. Until there are more -signa of improving business in tbe fall, and better earnings for corporations, interest in stocks seems likely to remain low. Tbe financial community nourishes a hope that the return of the President from his vacation may bring some move in Washington which might spur private initiative, but its ideas on what that move might be are nebulous.	.
Electric Output Up Again
Without any question, the power production figures are the most encouraging ot the weekly indices. Production, of course, has been lifted in several areas by the lack of rain and the in-tense heat, but the fact that in tbe Central Industrial region output in the week ended July 28 was up 0.2% over the corresponding week of 1933, when industrial activity was at a high rate, is comforting.
Power companies ever the last 18 months have had a very large source of demand built
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.