Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Feb 2, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Market
Diary
TUuraday	
1934	1933
	
	
SG's'r	
1^4’	lkti
.0641U	.039Of<
4.97**	3.39**
	
7.34	5.90
	5
52*.	25**
11.39	5.79
10 45	4.50
■4.00	3.00
373*	is*.
10.00	2 93
1 49	1.11
43**	25 *»
1 51	0.65
50 73	22.85
91*.	47’,.
10S 0	51.1
4 30	2 80 ft 2.85
Revaluation of the dollar to 59.06 cents by Presidential proclamation and the return of the country to a modified gold standard sent security prices booming to new highs yesterday. Commodities made no great advance, selling near the close cancelling most of the earlier gains -	-	■	-
about prices close, points.
Trading volume was the heaviest since late July, 1933. During the “	‘
amounted to 1.210,000 shares, and volume for the full session ran to 4,710,000 shares, the largest since July 21. At times the tape lagged as much as seven minutes behind the market. Railroad stocks showed wide advances at 'he day’s highs, gains running to almost 4 points in some issues. Utility stocks were strong, too, and industrial leaders were up from 1 to 4 points at their best prices. Gold mining shares were boosted by the lifting of the gold price to 335 an ounce. Homestake at one time was lifted 10 points.
The Presidential proclamation, giving the country a 59.06 cent dollar, overshadowed all other news. Cheering items on business did appear, including dividend declarations, word of advancing business lor the mail order houses, and better railroad traffic. Placing of an order lor five locomotives with Lima Locomotive helped to spur the rail equipment issues. Aviation stocks were heavy, and one or two other issues, like National Biscuit and Corn Products, slipped off. Montgomery Ward and Scars Roebuck were notably strong, and chemicals were in demand.
A broad demand for second-grade railroad and industrial bonds swept those two groups forward. High-grade rails again were slightly easier, as shifting of funds from one group tc another went on. Utility* obligations were up
In stocks, too. heavy offerings brought recessions from the day’s bigho, but at the finish were above the previous Gains ran from ’
fractions to nearly 3
first hour, transactions
too. Governments were strong throughout the day, and foreign bonds rose. The dollar swung widely in the foreign exchange market. Sterling and foreign currencies dropped in terms of dollars. Trading In bonds was, with the exception of March 20, 1930, the heaviest in the Exchange’s history.
Commodities were mixed. Cotton ran up Si a bale at the outset, bringing the market level to’above tne July high, but it retraced most of the ground gained later, closing up 2 to 6 points. Grains closed about unchanged, losing earlier gains. Silver futures declined, but rubber, silk and hides moved ahead.
Rubber and gold stocks were firm In Paris, important Industrial and mining shares were strong in London, with the remainder of the list mixed.	*
Turning to Lower Grade Bonds
Banks and estate managers are turning from the highest grade bonds to lower grade issues, feeling that in second grade bonds investors stand a good chance of getting appreciation on their principal and a favorable return on their money. Convertible bonds, too, are in demand, for they afford a hedge against any important rise in stocks and yield a much better return than most high-grade stocks.
One bank which was a heavy purchaser of high-grade bonds during the summer now is avoiding issues which command a premium above par and is selling some issues in this group. A large investment banking house, which took a big position in high grade rail bonds when they were selling from 60 to 80 cents on the dollar in the summer of 1932, has been selling some of its holdings and switching into second-grade railroad issues
As far as stocks arc concerned, institutional buying is still fairly limited. In one case, General Motors. United Fruit and one or two other stocks arc being suggested as suitable for investment portfolios. Investment counsel firms are still evidencing keen interest in railroad stocks. One of the largest is taking an optimistic view of the prospects for both Great Northern and Northern Pacific. This is due in part to the heavy outpouring of Government funds which has flown into the territory through a large part of which the two roads run. One source puts the total of Government funds put into Montana, the two Dakotas. Minnesota. Iowa and Wisconsin at $626,000,000.
Watching Percentage Comparisons
Comparing the current business level with the corresponding period of 1933 is productive of some very cheering figures, but too much optimism shouldn’t be generated by them. Between late January and mid-March in 1933 business of every character in this country suffered because of the banking troubles which beset .all sections of the United States and ended with closing of all the country’s banks. Railroad traffic, electric output, mail order house
sales and every other index of general business naturally will show wide gains over the comparable period of 1933 for the next six weeks, but increases are comparing with a period when business, generally, was running at a loss.
As far as railroad traffic goes, a much better method of judging the trend .than comparing with the previous year is through comparison with the average traffic for the previous 15 years. While the trend recently has been upward, with successive weekly figures showing a larger percentage of the 15-year average of traffic, the gains aren’t sensational.
Cotton Up Above July Highs
The early bulge in cotton yesterday carried the level of the market for the staple above the July tops to the highest figure since August. 1930. While some of the gain was lost quickly, ring observers were inclined to regard the ability of the staple to push through the July, 1933, top with some optimism.
Initial Shipment of Gold from France
The size of prospective shipments of gold from France gives some idea of the drain on that country’s reserves as a result of the new American monetary policy. As long as there is an excess of demand for dollars over the supply, that excess will come to this country in the form of gold. Under present conditions such an excess may be looked for, for stabilization of the dollar is expected to result in an Influx of capital seeking investment in this country. Not only are American balances held abroad likely to be repatriated, but the expectation is quite general that a substantial amount of foreign funds will flow into this market. Foreign buying of stocks picked up following the first intimation of near-term stabilization, in the forepart of January.
Limn Gets Locomotive Order
Lima Locomotive was the successful bidder on the second large locomotive order placed this year. The company is to build five new locomotive^ and 20 large tenders for the Nickel Plate. The first locomotive order placed was from the Northern Pacific for 10 locomotives, with Baldwin the successful builder. Additional equipment orders, financed by PWA grants, arc expected shortly. Their placing means business for the steel companies as 'well as locomotive builders.
.	Turn for the C. & E I.
The Chicago &■ Eastern Illinois has been, in the doldrums for a long time, but the road had a real turn in January. Loads handled were 17.4**; ahead of January, 1933. and were above the totals for both November and December. It was the first time since 1925 that January traffic was ahead of the preceding two months.
“Hot Oil’’ Still Troublesome
Meetings still are being held m Washington I on the oil purchasing and marketing agreo-’ ments. The troublesome factor to be reckoned i with is curtailment in the East Texas oil field In some quarters, the “hot oil” from this section is placed at between 45.000 and 75 000 barrels daily. Secretary Ickes and the oil administration are determined to clean un this situation.
more summary action apparently waiting on a pending decision from a three-judge federal court in an important case at Houston. The decision is likely within two weeks. In the meantime, the refinery gasoline market in the midcontinent has become stronger.
*	The Cut in the Bank Rate
In ordinary times, a cut in the New York bank rate under rates at other centers might be expected to put a brake on any heavy influx of funds from abroad to this country, but these aren’t ordinary times and yesterday’s reduction to lV=Sc may not greatly delay the indicated heavy movement of capital in this direction. The cut in the bank rate is likely to lure idle funds in this country’ to work.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for’the corresponding period a year previous and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their
latest report, and are not duplicated.
Increased earnings .. Decreased earnings . Unchanged dividends Increased dividends Resumed dividends . Initial dividends .... Omitted dividends .. Decreased dividends
Since	Additions
Jan. 1	yesterday
146	9
94	3
27 4	4
4Q	2
40	4
4
3
5
High and Low Prices
Thursday, on the New York Stock Exchange, sixty-rune stocks made new highs and no stock made a new low, for the year 1934-1933.
Cm Coal . .. Am MarhAM. AntMcAM cl fa Am snuff .. Am Woolen pf Art hr Daniel* Atlaa rowder. Atina Cdr pf BHnpor A Ar. Burkrr Rr. pf BHrViUK; pf Hendlx Avla’n Rlsrlow Snnfd Brown Shoe Brown^hoe pf RtudiTR ct 7nf Caterpillar Tr < errnln-t r»*fi T* Crrt’n-terd pf Chlldn Co .. Com Cred 7pf Com Lnv TrtiRt
New Highs ComlnTr c’pt | DrvorAKay A J Fin ton Mfc Co , KI A Mu*« Ind I KI Atito 1.1 pf 1 Vulrbka Moree ■ I'alrb'kn M pf FlrcatopeT pt 1 (<en Motor* .	|
Hahn D S pf < Int Dept S pf I Kronen S S pf , N V bhtphlds. ! May Dept Sto t Mnytac pf xw t MeKUIa Shoe Mtn |lon-»5rJl Minn Mol pf I Montc’y Ward | Morri* A: Kmt* ! Motor l*rm’« I Motor Wheel >
Rax bcatna Re la & Co Pf Rcmlnsr Rand RrfnBxnd Ipf Sonrw Roebuck Skcllr Oil .	.
Skelly OH pt. Stwonr Vnr'm So Kv MAO ct Sperry Corp . Ntd on or x j *»tcrllnK cv 1 pf Snn Oil
1	Paclflr
TUle Water ot Timken Roller Trlvo Pro«li»«t* 1 *»T'lpc A 1'djr C S Smeltinc.
V	S ^melt nf. M r«t v uro Chin
V	oolworth ..
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.