Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 8, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 18
the Market
Abreast of
Call saoney renewal.........
Time tnouey, So	......
Acceptances. 9o days...... Conuaerciai paper........
Fruhci, cables..............
Starling cables.............
New York bank rate...... Reserve System ratio...... CoSe*. JUo. May.......... Copper* delivered.......... Com. May....................
Cotto**, May ............... Sides* June.........’.......
X*ead* New York..........
O*>U, May...................
Rubber. No. 1 stand'd May Silk. raw. May..............
Silver. New York............
Susar. raw. May.............
Tin. May....................
Wheat. May..................
Wool tops. Ma} ............
Zinc. East St. Louis . • *B»ak holiday.
Market Diary
Wednesday
--	1933*
1934
ZL«t>
K ©2<t-
.0S&&
5 08 is B6.3<« 8 7S
12 09
10.30
4.00
33
10.93
J.40H
46
1-56
53.40
86’-,
106 .*»
4.40
3^%
S4.6$»
!»%
tbe demands being1 made by
representatives of railroad labor will meet'in Washingagreement to be substituted
Increased earnings .. Decreased earnings . Unchanged dividends Increased dividends Resumed dividends . Initial dividends ... » , Omitted dividends .. Decreased dividends
High and Low
Since	Additions
Jan. 1	yesterday
488	18
217	6
623	21
102	3
. 61	
. 8	
,	4	
s
_	Prices
Wednesday* on the New York change, fifteen stocks made new highs and no stock made a new low, for the	'
New High*
Stock Ex-
year 1934-1933.
AllledCbem pt I Croaley Radio 1 am Ctikc>» ..	■ Call states pi j
An* Loco® pf ! later*] Nickel Aw Safety Ka > Kreape Co. pf > Coxn<jrvd A cv . Llvsvtt&M. pt 1
CoxnCrvd A cv
. LlvsrttaM. pt
pbD Jodm pt PbUip Morri*. Nhattuclc, F G feolray Am pf. TlAa Want pt
Stocks turned heavy in the late dealings yesterday, the market failing to show any rallying power after an outbreak of selling in the fourth hour had brought fairly sizable setbacks in a number of the leading stocks. The selling wave followed not long after General Johnson’s declaration covering a plan for reducing working hours in industry. The selling dried up for a time, but it was resumed again late in the session and leaders fell to new low’s for the reaction. Trading ’voHittip picked up on the decline, the total for the day rising to 1.730,000 shares. Declines in the leaders amounted to more than 3 points in some cases.
Heaviness in tobacco stocks was pronounced throughout the session, American Tobacco and Liggett &. Myers being the chief sufferers. Railroad stocks were soft, too. and silver mining company issues declined. International Nickel moved fractionally higher, despite the heaviness in other sections of the metal group. Alcohol company stocks vzere strong spots early. The motor group slumped in the late dealings on fairly heavy volume. Chrysler losing 2^ and General Motors 1U points. Utility shares continued heavy, working lower in dull trading.
The financial community’s interest was concentrated on Washington, and General son’s statement was the most vital news day from that direction. The immediate of shortening hours and keeping up wage would be to reduce corporate profits.
Street felt, and some traders sold rather heavily on the news. The day’s business news, including an excellent sales report from Montgomery Ward; further testimony to improvement in the steel industry, and generally better railroad traffic figures, went ignored
Only the more speculative issues suffered in the bond market, high-grade domestic corporation obligations holding firm m spite of the selling in stocks. Foreign bonds, particularly French issues, were strong, and United States Government obligations were higher also.
Grains weakened in the latter part of the session, and wheat closed off to cent a bushel. Coarse grains were fractionally lower, too. and cotton eased off. after showing early strength. At the finish it was down 3 to 10 points. Silver futures dropped 25 to 38 points.
Rentes were strong in Faris, with the remainder of the list irregular. In London, prices were easier, except for one or two international issues.
Major Labor Developments Ahead
Within 10 days two conferences of major importance will be undertaken between industrial managers and employes to attempt to reach an agreement on wage and labor questions. In both cases the national Administration will play a prominent, if not dominant, role, and the outcome of tbe two parleys should prove extremely significant on the longer term outlook for industry and corporate profits.
The National Labor Board will start hear-
John-of the effect scales WaU
of a tactical move than anything else.
Coast Gasoline Market Unsettled
The gasoline situation on the Pacific Coast, where several price cuts have been made recently. is in general a repetition of marketing difficulties which have existed for several years. The price is now down to the point, considering the deduction of 4 cents in taxes, where the important companies in the industry will have to get together again on a marketing agreement.
Distress gasoline has been coming on the market recently, due to the fact that arrangements whereby tbe major companies previously were taking excess gasoline from the smaller companies expired March 1. The legality of the California marketing plan has been challenged in Washington, but tbe oil administration holds that it is a restraint on unfair competition, rather than a violation of the anti-trust laws. Any trouble for the cartel marketing plan now would be distinctly unsettling, for it would mean that a new program for preventing price cutting would have to be devised.
Potential Investors Hesitant
Clients of one large New York institution have shown considerable hesitancy about making commitments in securities recently. Almost a score of individuals “in funds’’ through bond maturities or for other reasons have delayed reinvesting their money. Their general attitude has been one of “wait and see”, reflected in the performance of stocks and in the lighter volume of ‘	‘
dealings in bonds.
Steel Output Highest Since August
February steel output was at the highest level since August, according to the American Iron &. Steel Institute figures, with the daily rate up to 92.696 tons. That daily rate has been exceeded m only three months since May. 1931. It represents a gain of 56% over the daily rate m November, the low point of the recent slump.
The most encouraging thing about the steel situation is that production is working steadily upward; there are no signs of any let-down. Labor troubles in the motor industry are the only threat on the horizon, and they haven’t affected the steel operating rate. Prospects for the Industry are brightening, rather than diminishing, for m the second quarter a substantial volume of business	"	’
Administration projects and industry should support the period when motor business to slacken somewhat.
on Public Works from the railroad industry during a may be expected
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports ot leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and of dividend
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.