STOCKS REFLECT ADVERSE NEWS: UTILITY SHARES AT NEW LOW STRIKE, ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 17, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 2	.
STOCKS REFLECT
ADVERSE NEWS
The Week Reviewed
Acute weakness in United States government bonds, labor uprisings in the textile centers and disappointment over the Maine elections combined in producing intense nervousness In financial markets during the past week. In addition, the absence of any indications of a worth-while pick-up in fall business helped to make discouragement complete.
Public utility stocks went into new low ground for the current year, influenced not only by the fact that power consumption has dipped below 1933 levels, but by fears that inflationary remedies may again be attempted.
The industrials and rails held stubbornly through the middle of the week and trading fell close to the lowest levels of the year. But on Friday liquidation broke out in volume, starting in Allied Chemical which sold off more than eight points. Steel issues also dropped sharply to new low ground for the year, some of the preferred shares in this group being particularly hard hit. The absence of effective support for some of the leading issues	to arouse fears
over the new stock market regulations which go into effect on October 1.
The most disturbing development of all was the weakness in government bonds. Coming during the week when the treasury was attempting an important financing operation, it emphasized the difficulty of financing for an indefinite period “	-	- -
continual deficits for relief purposes.
Excess Reserves Rise $50,000,000 increase of approximately $50,000,000 in reserves of the member banks reporting’ Federal Reserve system, lifting the total
An excess in the to approximately $1,755,000,000, was the outstanding feature of the week's credit statements. The increase was principally the result of a reduction in circulating money and in Treasury cash and deposits with the Reserve institutions, aggregating $39,000,000.
Monetary gold stock increased $3,000,000 in the last week, compared with a decrease of $18,000,000 in the preceding seven days. Net exports of metal in the September 12 week aggregated $10,400,000.
The rising trend in commercial loans evident among the New York City reporting banks continued, although on a substantially smaller scale. In the past week such loans, characterized as “all other,” increased by $2,000,000. Security loans, on the other hand, dropped off.
Foreign Exchanges Dull
Local foreign exchange market came to an almost complete standstill last week as traders stood by to watch the battle which is going on on the other side between foreign short speculators in the dollar and the American Stabilization Fund. In its operations in Paris, the Fund apparently has established a deadline of $.0668 for French francs and continues to absorb all dollars offered at that level.
Traders here understood that the short interest is growing, rather than decreasing as the Tesult of the Fund's activities. Shorts argue that when the current Treasury financing operations are out of the way. the Fund'* support will be withdrawn and the stage will be ripe for another bear raid based on belief ’ further devaluation of the dollar.
will come, it is believed, at the end of the month when many of the short positions must be renewed:	if the American Fund continues to
support the dollar, a break in the franc rate may be looked for.
The British Fund is now supporting sterling again in Paris and the rate is being held steadily at slightly above recent lows at about 75 francs to the pound. Against the gold currencies, the French franc is very weak. It is at the gold export point with regard tq, the Swiss franc and gold is flowing from Pans to Switzerland. A possibility that French gold may go also to Holland is seen as guilders advance steadily in Paris, probably in connection with the repayment on September 24 of the outstanding 50,000,000 guilders of French Treasury bills held by Dutch bankers.
At the beginning of the week, China announced restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, which are now limited entirely to legitimate commercial and reasonable personal requirements. At the same time, dealings on the gold bar exchange have been prohibited. The move is interpreted here as aimed against the speculative element in Shanghai which has been one of the world's most powerful speculative group, particularly in silver.
As far as can be learned here, the restrictions do not constitute the embargo on silver exports which had been feared and it is understood that the white metal continues to move out of Shanghai in large volume for sale abroad.
Wheat held in a trading range of around 2% cents a bushel during the early portion of the week. On Friday, however, a wave of eastern liquidation hit the market and prices worked into fresh low territory. Support was inadequate and stop-loss orders were caught on the decline. Some buying was made on resting orders in commission house hands, as well as for mill account, but it was insignificant in relation to the selling pressure. The Department of Agriculture’s September 1 crop report, issued during the week, failed to suggest any further deterioration in the spring wheat prospect, indeed it mentioned a modest gain in official estimates. Importation threats for all grains loom hard by. The open interest is heavy. Tired longs fear heavy additions from foreign granaries, without any prohibitive action from Washington.
Corn proved its technically vulnerable position by breaking smartly Friday, despite a surrounding batch of crop developments of the most bullish nature. The government report showed a domestic output of but 1,485,000,000 bushels, the smallest since 1894—in per capita relationship the smallest on record. Admittedly, it is far below feeding needs and with the accompanying shortage of other coarse grains creates a bullish statistical position. However, pricewise, much of this has already been anticipated with the advance in corn this spring from 45 cents to over 80. The open interest is large and the tendency to realize handsome profits pressing.
Cotton Breaks Through 13 Cents higher than anticipated production esti-by the Government and unfavorable strike combined to depress cotton futures last
AU months went below 13 cents. In the
of ultimate The climax
A
mate news week,
initial session of the week, the market broke one dollar a bale, but recovered half this loss on Tuesday, when prices rallied 12 to 14 points.	_
During the rest of the period, however, jthe ^Journal Only
market was easy, going into new low ground for the move. The bulk of the support was provided by trade price fixing.
Foreign demand for American cotton continued small, with exports almost 350,000 bales behind last year. Domestic consumption also has been curtailed due to the strike, but it is expected that this will pick up sharply when it has been settled.
Steel Rate Improves Slightly
The easier trend of steel operations finally was broken last week when the American Iron & Steel Institute announced a 2^ point increase. But this gain only brings output to around 21% of capacity and leaves rather lean pickings for the steel makers. Although stocks of steel, accumulated last June before the price rise, have been used up by many consumers, the latter arc very cautious about making new commitments.
Thesame uncertainty which characterizes almost every part of the capital goods industry is quite evident in steel. The railroads and the automobile trade are not taking much steel now and while construction, under the continued stimulus of federal aid, helps bolster the market, building has not achieved large enough proportions to give a real boost to ingot production.
The situation in scrap, which still is closely watched as a barometer of coming steel events, is a trifle more encouraging though the picture here is somewhat mixed. The Pittsburgh market has firmed a little but at Chicago there was a sell-off of 25 cents during the week.
United States Steel’s increase in August shipments over July proved to be a factor of only minor encouragement. It showed that consumption of steel was a little better in August than had generally been supposed.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.