Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 16, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
1934	1933
	1%
1%	%%
	
	1 %
.0838%	.0390%
5. 1344	3.35 %
3%	2%%
63.6%	85.8%
7 33	5.84
8	&
MS	35%
11.40	6.03
10.45	5.00
4 OO	3.00
39 %	16%
9 14	3.02
1.43	1.16
45	35%
1.38	0.83
32.75	31.83
91%	46%
107 9	53.9
4.35	3.05
community. While it may not fully satisfy any ( of the dissenting elements which have been en- ( gaging in the financial tug-of-war. it is a compromise which can draw support from aU .
business element has been urging stabili-ration of the dollar, at some point, as a prime necessity for any sustained improvement in business. The President, in his message, places definite limits on what he believes should be the width of fluctuations in the American monetary unit, that Is between 50 cents and 60 cents, based on the gold dollar, or a fluctuation of 16 2-3% downward from the 50-cent lesveL Judged by the long-distant past, that envisages a fairly wide play, but it is small compared to what was considered possible recently when inflation talk was so rife. It affords a basis
Averages Pierce Resistance levels
All three Dow-Jones averages pierced important resistance levels yesterday to the accompaniment of heavy trading, and in two cases the movement of the averages was regarded as of substantial moment from the technical student's viewpoint. The rail average, closing at 44.26. was more than a full point above the December high, the last rally top. Tbe trial average, closing at 103.19. fractlonally bettered the December 9 top of 102.92, but the penetration was not as decisive as that In the rails. The movement of industrials, therefore, becomes of major significance at this time.
In closing at 26.17, the util ty ave™Se topped, in decisive fashion, a resistance level which has proved Impenetrable since m d' tober. On four previous rallies, the average has been unable to close above 25. but yesterday’s strength in the to the finish. The average, after holding‘P “■ fairly narrow trading area since mid-Octobcr, has broken out on the upside.	.
The Dow-Jones commodity futures index, at yesterday’s close of 52.29, was at a new top since compilation of the index was begun on October 2. Commodities, except in a lev. in stances notably cotton, arc not back to any- . where near the levels prevailing in the midJuly run-up.
Rubber Statistics Favorable
Year-end statistics on the rubber Industry In this country were favorable and. while the foreign outlook still is uncertain, there arc possibilities that some agreement will be reached to curb production. So far. conferences have resulted in nothing more definite than reP°^ ■■ of ’’progress." but some declaration may come ■ from the Amsterdam meeting late tills wee . :	Inspite of the rapid rise in consumption of
‘ rubber last year, and the prospects of heavy , consumption m the first quarter of 1934 stocks i on hand in the United States are not large. • At the year-end estimates indicate they stood at 364,511 long tons, a decrease of 8-10 ,c from a year previous. In view of this reduction the industry cannot be said to be overloaded with stocks entering the new year.
Insofar as the price of crude rubber goes much depends on how many native estates which were permitted to stop when prices were at bottom levels are brought back into production. It takes time for output to be pushed up to levels which glut the market with rubber. A production agreement, such as went into effect for tin, would eliminate that possibility. Rising consumption so far has offset most of the advance in output and prices for crude rubber have remained firm.
Farm Implement Sales Rising
Crop advances from the Agricultural Adjustment Administration are lilting business in the Middle West, just as cotton loan advances made in the latter part of last year to farmers in the Southwest were followed by a sharp rise m business in that territory. The major crops on which Middle Western ^nicrs receive payments are corn and wheat, and the cash is going partly to pay off old debts and purchase new farm equipment. Farm equipment companies arc beneflitting in two ways Their frozen assets, in the form of receivables, slowlv xnav become converted into cash, and they arc getting some lift in current business Due to the government payment?5 on crons, tne
The security and commodity markets hailed President Roosevelt’s message to Congress, urging devaluation of the dollar to the 60-cent level and creation of a $2,000,000,000 equalization fund for currency management, with sweeping gains on a broad front. Successive waves of buying, which left the ticker lagging as much as four minutes behind floor transactions. sent the stock market ahead for gains which ran to as much as 6% points in some of the pivotal, old-line leaders, and for upwards of 20' points in one or two more volatile issues, like Homestake Mining.
The big bulges In stocks came in the early dealings and in the last two hours, after it was anounced that the gold price would be set at $34.45 an ounce today. The rise was led by du Pont, Case. Allied Chemical, the steel shares and Johns Manville, among the industrials. Railroad Issues were strong throughout the day. led by New York Central. Pennsylvania, Delaware & Hudson and Atchison, and utilities reached the best levels in months on steady buying.
The market was helped by good business news, too. The bulge in the steel operating rate to 34.2% announced by the Iron and Steel Institute was unexpectedly large. Trading volume in stocks ran to 3,740,000 shares for the session, the highest since July 21. last year.
In other markets, the response to the President’s message was equally emphatic. Bonds, which have been strong for some time, staged further gains, trading volume rising to the highest since ““	'	‘
were strong, to be the lenders, types were firm.
Business News Good
March 20.	1930. All groups
speculative rails continuing High-grade issues of ail _	____ _____ Governments were active,
too, forcing upward for the most striking gains in a long time. Weakness in the dollar in the foreign exchange market had no effect on this department.
Commodities hailed the message with sweeping advances. Wheat, at the finish, was up 3% to 4% cents a bushel. Cotton closed steady, up $2 a bale. At one time it was up $2.50 a bale, at the best price since August. 1930. and at the close was almost back at the July, 1933. high.
Preferreds I^ead Rise in Stocks
Preferred stocks were the star performers in yesterday’s buoyant market. The President's monetary declaration for stabilization of the dollar between a narrow limit naturally helped preferred shares, which had suffered from tho threat of monetary debasement which would have meant a very sharp curtailment in the purchasing power of actual or potential dividends. With the President declaring for devaluation at least of 60 cents, holders of common shares shifted into preferreds which are selling to return a good yield, or where prospects of better business indicate that stocks not now on a dividend basis may return to one. Steel company preferred shares, which have been buoyant for some time, were in the van of yesterday's rise.
Welcoming Prospect of Stabilization
The performance of all the markets was proof of the constructive interpretation placed on the President's monetary program by the financial
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Implement buying season has gotten under way a good deal earlier than is usual.
Mystery in Kansas City Southern
Unusual strength in Kansas City Southern common and preferred has attracted considerable attention in railroad circles in Wall Street and as yet hasn't been explained. Ownership of the most important single block of common, roughly 105,000 shares, is reputed to lie in the bands of Paine. Webber & Co., reported as purchasers of the stock formerly held by the Chicago Great Western. The Great Western acquired It from the Alleghany Corp.
One explanation offered for the rise* is that Union Pacific might be anxious to obtain an Important interest in the Kansas City Southern, but this seems illogical. Union Pacific has most friendly relations with a number of roads in the territory served by the Kansas City Southern and. while the road was assigned to the U. P. under the Interstate Commerce Commission's consolidation plan, the U. P. management wouldn’t be anxious to disturb its relations with other roads at the present time by buying into the K. S. U.
Copper Demand Expands
Demand for non-ferrous metals, which has been small for two weeks, increased markedly yesterday. The expansion was most notable in copper. With the appearance of the President's message, the bid for copper abroad was jumped to 8.125 cents a pound c. 1. f. European ports. Earlier, the price abroad was only 8.05 to 8.10 cents in American currency. With it possible to realize more by selling abroad than in the domestic market, custom smelters were less desirous of selling. It would not be surprising to see an advance in domestic copper prices if the foreign price holds up.
How They Stand
.Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and arc not duplicated.
	Since Jan. 1	Additions yesterday
Inccrased earnings		. . .	35	1
Decreased earnings ....	. . .	24	4
Unchanged dividends ..	...	147	4
	..	25	2
	20	
rtlvldnnris	- - -	p	
Omitted dividends 		_ 2	1
Deceased dividends ...	2	