Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 28, 1934;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
the Market
Abreast
of
to
message
Congress, demanding & stock exchange regulation bill ■with. teem ix. it. sent stocks tumbling lower un-d-T a ilooc of offerings at Tuesday's opening. Tbe majority of stocks showed losses of 2 to 4 pomts to start the day and volume was quite heavy for tbe first 15 minutes of trading.
After tbe first convulsive reaction to this overnight news, the market settled down into a qnet trading range. Most stocks hung around their I'-’-ws of the day and several dipped to still loa er levels m the second hour. The market as a whole, however, managed to hold slightly anove the initial low’s and some of the leaders recovered part of their losses in the last hour.
Unusual activity developed in Stock Exchange memberships. Four seats were sold before 2 7 m. at substantial concessions from previous i<veis_ The lowest, at $83,000, represented a drop of $29 OOO m value overnight.
Most of the commodity markets showed sympathetic M'eakaess. The grains dropped from Z'z cents to	cents a bushel, but recovered
of this loss m the afternoon. Wheat was ofi about 1 cent in the late trading. Cotton was ofi 9 to II points in the morning, but recovered tne greater part of this loss in the afternoon. Silver was weak.
The bond market was unsteadied, with best graae utility and rail issues holding fairly well, b-t with the bulk of the lower grade issue selling lower. German issues were again under pressure.
The Dondon Stock Exchange was quiet and irregular. Many of the industrial issues, such as rayem. cable stocks and oils, were easier Prices <"r. the Faris Bourse were heavy throughout, the
How Much Margin Trading Is Done?
In fact, how much of a factor *n the buying and selling of	’	*
The • wnat mg for
stocks is margin trading? total value of listed stocks here is some* . less than $37,000,000,000. Before apply-loans. brokers generally use their own
working capital to extend credit to customers. ■ A. check-up with leading commission houses indicates the ratio of their own working capital to total loans ranges from 10% to 17%. With brokers loans at around $900,000,000, this would indicate that as much as $150,000,000 of brokers* capital is loaned in addition to the total reported. Some figure the amount substantially in excess of this figure. If it were double that figure, it would still leave the total loaned at present under $1,200,000,000, or less than. 3.3% of the value of listed stocks. And if the $941,000,000 in loans to “others” which the Federal Reserve Board reports were included as loans against listed securities (it is not certain that these are Joans against listed securities) it would still leave borrowings against listed stocks under 6% of their total value.
Freight Car Fooling Retards Buying
With a special committee of railroad officers appointed to cooperate with Federal Coordinator Eastman on a plan for car pooling, hopes of a big spurt in freight car buying will have to be deferred. Many of the western roads will not buy cars in a big way while there us a prospect of a pooling plan being put into effect. Eastern roads have not allowed the prospect of pooling to interfere with purchases of new equipment. In many cases the demand was so urgent that orders were placed regardless of the outcome. However, a recovery in equipment buying can only be incomplete while doubt remains on this question of pooling of equipment. A prompt report by this committee would be welcomed, for it would remove the uncertainty.
Steel Trade Needs Railroad Buying
The steel industry needs railroad equipment buying, for railroads usually are important consumers of steel. Last year the railroads took only 9% of the steel produced, against 18% to 20% normally. Manufacturers of tin cans and other metal containers used more tonnage of steel in 1933 than the railroads, their takings amounting to	of the total steel output.
The steel industry cannot be expected to subsist for long merely on the demands of the automobile and container industry, their two best customers at the moment. The container companies will take less tonnage in the next few months, for they are now well stocked. Continuation of auto demand will depend upon retail sales, and may be extended for some time yet. But the heavy industries must come in 1 the market for something like their normal 5 share of the business if steel operations are to be lifted above the 50% level.
At the moment steel operations are close to 45.7% of capacity.
How They Stand
Number of earnings reports of leading companies, compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared with the previous declar-
Since	Additions
Jan. 1	yesterday
715	10
283	4
820	11
70	1
10	
122	
4	. .
9	
• Frices	
Increased gainings ........
Decreased earnings.........
Unchanged dividends ...... Resumed dividends.........
Initial dividends..........
Increased dividends ........ Omitted dividends .........
Decreased dividends........
High and Low
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, six stocks made new highs and	-	“
new lows, for the year 1934.
New Highs SZcIntyi* Pore R«*la A Co. pt I New Lows
Dlamd Mat pf Fo un <1 a 11 o n C o. F'reep’x Tcxa» Hasel Atlaa Interboro R T
, Int John* Man % 11.
Kennecott Cop McKeeapt T P Macy & Co...
BelffNatRy pf Kress. S. H..
Redaction Com Ale. Rnadtlnc Steel Fdra
Air Am
Am
Am____.. _ ..
Barnsdall . . Bktrn Maa Tr Cerro de Pasco Corn Prod of. Crown Corlc&S
Diamond Mat
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
29 stocks made
West Pae pf. Weston E 1 A
Xatlonal Tea. Penick A F~O PheltM* Dodpe. St Joseph L'd stand Brand* Mtd OU of Cal Texas Gulf Su t'nlon Carbide V S Ind Alco