Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 28, 1935;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Abreast of the Market BY ROBERT LAFFAN
By Robert Laffan
Stocks made a feeble attempt to celebrate the adjournment of Congress yesterday morning with a rally but the* move stalled early and ended in a rout. For the fourth time in the past eight days volume of trading picked up substantially on the downside, this time with more aggressiveness and telling effect upon prices, many representative stocks losing 2 to 3 points in a 2,130,000 share session that had the tape running behind floor transactions several times.
Disappointment over the market's recent behavior in the face of several items of good news, and discreet profit-taking by 'Investors who have done well over the past five to six months were responsible for the decline. Otherwise, the move was largely technical and had little to draw on from outside developments, unless it was the unfavorable impression created by the continued weakness in United States Government bonds. The latter were weak again yesterday and unusually active, while corporate bonds eased further.
At the outset there was a pronounced bulge in du Font that frightened shorts into a fairly general covering movement. An unusually thin market in du Font, with offerings several points above the bid price and the previous night's closing delayed the opening, which finally came out at 122*£ ex dividend. At this point the stock was 3’-i points higher than the .Monday close, but it sagged later with the general market and ended at 117. Chrysler shot ahead for a time and several other industrial specialties, notably Otis Steel and United States Steel, common, bulged.
Weakness in utility common and preferred issues soon displaced the strength in Industrials, Consolidated Gas being particularly heavy and ending with a 3-point loss at 26%. Ralls gave way gradually until after the noon hour when their losses began to run to deeper proportions. Atchison dropped more than 2 points, and New York Central lost a similar amount.
Mild rallies occurred twice after the initial selling drive but volume dried up to a standstill on each occasion and final prices were at the lows for the day, with 30 industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages off 2.18 points to 126.81, rails off 99-100 at 34.73 and utilities off 1.28 at 2*4.18.
Commodities were mixed,* grains dragging slightly lower while cotton was up 13 to 19 points.
• • «
FOREIGN ORDERS MIXED—
Reports from the floor that houses that usually act for foreign interests were heavy sellers lacked confirmation. London was a buyer on balance through several houses while Paris sold stock on balance. The former generally represents a larger proportion of investment business while orders from Faris often are more speculative.
Two of the leading houses reported that buy and sell orders in the aggregate about balanced. There was, however, some liquidation in accounts that had standing profits in stocks accumulated from one to six months ago, and this was attributed to disappointment over the market behavior following adjournment.
...
UTILITIES—
Utilities were again the weak spot in the market's armor yesterday. The early thrust upward, which was headed by du Font, Chrysler and a few other industrial leaders died quickly when it become evident that utilities not only were failing to participate, but were losing a little ground.
Weakness in utilities developed in the face
of a reassuring wire sent out by a leading commission house before the opening. This house advised against snap judgment in disposing of good utility stocks until a full study of the utility bill had been made. If the constitutionality of the bill is upheld and dissolution of some holding companies is ordered, this firm pointed out, -it should be recalled that the dissolution by the government of the Standard Oil Co. and the American Tobacco Co. and various other companies in. the final analysis showed substantial increases in the values of the securities composing these units.
...
PUBLIC INTEREST—
The open interest in utilities was a little too formidable for appeals to Investment reasoning. The small trader and investor in various parts of the country appeared to take to utilities this summer In much the same manner that they took to the liquor and alcohol stocks in 1933, although this time on a smaller scale. Most houses had a widely scattered long interest in low-priced utility common shares, and many of these buyers were not certain of their ground, nor able to appreAate the intricacies of a legislative situation that had puzzled older and more experienced utility people. The latter confessed their bewilderment weeks ago when utilities were bounding ahead without apparent reason, and they were beginning to wonder whether someone knew something about the legislative outlook which was not apparent to them.
. • • • x PREFERRED SHARES—
Next to the utility stocks, most of the bullishness seems to have converged 'on industrial preferred shares with large dividend accruals. These stocks have ben among the more spectacular performers In the past several months, and some have been attempting to discount a vision of dividend reinstatement which on closer, analysis might look somewhat hazy, and not in immediate view.
Many industrial companies, particularly those in capital goods lines, have other things besides dividend accruals to take care of if business revives Importantly. The most important is plant modernization, and this should and probably will precede dividend restoration where the handicap of operating competitivply with obsolete equipment is pronounced.
Opportunities in some speculative preferred shares undoubtedly exist, but a stock which has advanced 30 to 40 points in the past several months is not necessarily cheap because it has declined a few points. Its value will be determined along more fundamental lines.
RAILS—
The performance of railroad shares was poor before the Industrials started to decline yesterday. At no time during the market upturn of the past several months have the railroad shares given a really inspiring performance. They came along periodically and made a fair showing during the second week in August, but have been behaving badly since.
The July earnings statements for the majority have not been good, with net operating income for a group of 33 carriers off from 1934 almost 30%. Individual roads have been doing better, and the majority should have better material upon which to base optimism in August.
HOW
STAN
Number of earnings reports of leading companies compared with those for the corresponding period a year previous, and of dividend declarations compared With the previous declarations, follow. Companies reporting earnings on a monthly basis are included according to their latest report, and are not duplicated:
Since
July 1 Increased earnings ........	372
Decreased earnings .......	352
Unchanged dividends ......	526
Increased dividends .......	33
Reduced dividends .........	5
Resumed dividends .......... 17
Accumulated dividends ....	22
Additions yesterday
4
4
17
1
1
HIGH AND LOW PlilCES Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange, 40 stocks made new highs and one stock made
a new low, for the year 1935.
Oea l*rlat lak Klorculea Pwd let narveater 1st NIokolLtd John, Bflaaull.
Lor I lie rd Bteasel Co pd
Otlo Steal....
Otto Oil Or at reaar? J C rtillllne retro nieaalrWe BonBuid
Rem Sami S st Keeerecaa pt StJoeenb Lead Strrel
Skell7 OU.... SpaasChalf vt Saserheater • Seoerlor st.. Tidewater OU Trwaooo Steel Waldorf Seat. Whls a LKrlr Tallow Trucks
New Low
kalrlnator ..
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.