Sterling and Lire Under Pressure, React On Stocks: Italian Currency ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 6, 1935;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Sterling and Lire Under Pressure, React On Stocks
Italian Currency Depressed by African Difficulties and Foreign Trade Situation
Some Foreign Selling Here
Selling pressure on sterling was renewed on Tuesday, while recent weakness in the Italian currency became accentuated. These developments, occurring in a generally disturbed. exchange market, spread to the local securities market where prices generally were sharply lower.
The lira, of the gold currencies, was outstandingly weak. At one time on Tuesday it dold down more than. 6 points to $.0839, but recovered slightly.
The chief factors influencing the downtrend in the Italian currency are the difficulty which that country is experiencing in Ethiopia coupled with an inability to collect on shipments to its principal foreign markets ir* central Europe, where, for the most part, restrictions on foreign exchange are operative.
In addition, the country has been faced with a growing import baiance, and some bankers attribute the lack of official support to the currency as a move by the Italian government to stimulate exports.
In spite of increasingly severe foreign exchange restrictions resembling those adopted by Germany, in an attempt to defend dwindling gold reserves, Italy’s metal has declined nearly to the statutory minimum of 40%. A raw material importing country, she has found the mobilization of sufficient foreign exchange to pay her bills in the rest of the world more and more difficult.
Stocks Drop Sharply
The decline in the stock market here was one of the sharpest in recent months, amounting to 2.49 in the Dow-Jones industrial average and to 1.28 in the ra^ls: utilities were off 0.44. While there was some tendency to blame foreign selling, which in some quarters was reported to be heavy, houses with connections abroad stated that there had been only a alight rise in such sales yesterday and that ’’sell” orders from Europe, principally London and Paris, had outweighed “buy” orders from the same source for the past ten days. Loca-1 short selling by small as well as large traders together with local liquidation of margined and investment stocks also were noted.
The British pound, after being maintained at a fairly steady level most of the morning, suffered a setback in the early afternoon when a deluge of “sell” orders came through local institutions, breaking tne rate to $4.75%, for a loss of $.01%. The filial dosing price was a fraction above that. As on previous occasions recently, there was no indication of supporting operations by either the official American or British stabilization funds.
PARIS (UP>— Premier Pierre Etienne Flandin told the Chamber of Deputies that France in-FZease Turn to Page Two
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
.....	(Continued from First Pago)- —
tends to adhere strictly to its policy of monetary stability. Following tus speech he received a vote of confidence of 333 to 151.
’•Recently the movement in foreign currency has attracted the attention of the government,’’ said Mr, Flandin. “Certain persons thought we could have renounced our policy of stability and defense of the franc.
**I declare to them that in no manner do we wish to consider any move except to give assurance that the stability of currency is necessary and requisite to an economic recovery by the world.’*
During the dobatr. Flandin warned that the government might be led to taking measures to protect France against the trade “dumping” which might result from the devaluation of certain currencies.	.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.