Leading Markets Of World Join In Broad Advance: Ethiopian Peace Talks ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 4, 1935;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
ILeading Markets
Of World Join
In Broad Advance
Ethiopian Peace Talks Stimulates Security Prices in Paris And London
French Situation Still Mixed
Principal stock and bond markets of the world yesterday suddenly threw off the discouragement of the last several days and joined in a broad upwai d movement which brought higher quotations in all departments.
Long before the New York market had opened cables were being received from London and Pans telling of better sentiment in financial quarters there This improvement apparently was based on the hope that new diplomatic conversations which are being carried on may bring a conclusion to the Ethiopian dispute.
London market was aided by a wild scramble for British government bonds, following tho announcement of the new issues tn be offered today, whose coupons will carry new low interest rates.
Paris Bourse Ignores Chamber
In Paris, the Bourse ignored a violent session of the Chamber of Deputies which became so uproarious as debate was begun on the Fascist Leagues in France, that the session had to be suspended. Tn strong and active trading. Rentes shared with industrials in the general rise
Stocks and bonds pushed ahead vigorously in the New York market following the reaction of the past week as trading expanded in both departments.
Italian stock markets are purely internal markets now because of the exchange regula-' lions which do not allow international dealings in securities, but it was significant that the Milan Bourse joined in the general movement with a firm tone after a period of weakness.
Confirming the impression of the last f*w days of an easing in the French political situation. yesterday was the first day since the French crisis became acute that no engagements of gold were reported at Paris for shipment to New York. France, however, turned slightly softer and it is reported that the gold mo%re-n '•nt is being switched to Belgium away from New York for the time being.
There is nothing tangible yet on the surface to substantiate the better feeling with regard to the international outlook. In Paris, the French Premier still has to survive at least two critical votes of confidence ana the near not yesterday in the Chamber might be given any interpretation.
Oil Sanctions Pushed
Preparations are being pushed for imposition of oil sanctions against Italy which observers recently have felt would be the signal for armed resistance of some sort from Italy. The-sanctions committee is to meet December 12 for final action. Opinion is that the prohibition on oil exports to Italy will go into effect shortly before Christmas unless a solution of Plrasr turn to pcifjc 2 column 5
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
-	, (Continued from First Page)--------------
the Ethiopian problem satisfactory to the League of Nations can be found.
Opening of the New British Parliament yesterday gave no indication of a softening in the British determination to uphold the League of Nanons, regardless of the outcome. Down in Rome, the Italian cabinet met for the second time in 72 hours to strengthen its lines of resistance to the economic pressure which already is being felt.
Despite all of these factors, opinion was growing yesterday that the tense situation of last week is easing rapidly. Possibly highly significant was the fact that the communique issued after the Italian cabinet meeting contained no war like defiant references to the sanctionist countries as enemies.
At the same time, it is evident that both Great Britain and France recognize the danger inherent to oil sanctions. While both countries are determined to put them into effect, if necessary, the United Press reported that a final supreme effort is to be made to find a solution before oil sanctions become effective.
According to the United Press, secret consultations are taking place between the British and French foreign offices to draft a new proposal based upon the provisions which Mussolini rejected last August but which now might satisfy all parties concerned.
Based on Mussolini's Attitude
A hint was conveyed in United Press dispatches that the decision of England and France to make one more attempt has been aided by the “manifest desire” on the part of Premier Mussolini, which has been conveyed through diplomatic channels, to examine possible proposals.
As they stand now, sanctions have developed into a race to see which will break first, Italy or the sanctionist countries. Complaints in France, for example, have been growing against sanctions because of the business loss which has followed.
On the other hand, the pinch evidently is being felt in Italy as well and reports are being received of mounting unemployment. This was to have been expected because much of Italian industry depends upon foreign trade. Raw cotton is bought from abroad and then refold abroad in the form of manufactured goods. Curtailment inevitably means unemployment and loss of wages which huits both the individual and government.
On top of the bettor international outlook, the London market was aided in three ways by the new issues to be offered today. First, the low interest coupons indicates official belief that chieap money will continue for industry. Second, consolidation of part of the floating debt will improve the financial positions of the government. Third, it is believed that the financing is in preparation for rearmament which, in the final analysis, is a form of public work*?, involving the expenditure of large sums 01 public money throughout the country
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.