Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 27, 1936;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
HOW THEY STAND—
Copper, domestic Lead. New York Silver. New York Steel scrap cPlttn
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Stocks suffered their sharpest setback of the month yesterday, losing ground with the initial transactions and extending their losses as the session progressed. For a time, in the fourth hour, prices steadied but trading diminished and in the final hour pressure wsas renewed, the tape falling three minutes behind floor transactions. The close was around the lowest levels of the day. Trading for the entire day amounted to 1,480,000 shares.
Practically all groups were affected by the end of the session but in the early dealings the rails and steels seemed to be the focal points for considerable offerings. Bethlehem lost more than three points, displaying during the morning a lack of effective resistance to moderate selling. New York Central, Great Northern, Atchison, Southern Railway, Baltimore & Ohio and Delaware & Hudson were set back from one to two points.
Montgomery Ward suffered from consistent selling, losing more than two points net. Anaconda and Kennecott suffered similar losses in spite of the fact that copper prices finally were boosted to 10 cents a pound. Standard Oil of New Jersey experienced a sharp reaction after its recent strength, dropping nearly three points. The liquidation in the last hour carried all classes of issues lower.
Utilities showed none of the independent strength exhibited at times m the preceding week Twenty utilities lost 82-100 of a point, 20 rails lost 1.26 points and 30 industrials lost 3.61 points. Bonds were softer all around and commodities were irregularly lower.
• • •>
CHART POSITION—
Chartists will be quite disturbed if the reactionary movement is not halted in the areas of approximately 170 in the industrials and 55 in the rails. For this would mean that the resistance against decline which was so forcibly
Number of earnings reports of leading companies, compared with those of the corresponding period a year previous. and of dividend declarations with the previous declaration*, follow:
	Since	Additions
Increased earnings:	Oct. 1	yesterday
Industrials 			. ...	185	16
Rails 		. .. .	52	
Utilities 			 50	8
Decreased earnings:		
Industrials 		.... 28	6
Raila 		....	4	
Utilities 		....	15	*
Dividends:		
Unchanged 			 322	8
Increased 			 27	1
Reduced			 2	1
Initial 		. .. . 12	
Resumed 		. . . . 6	
Accumulated 			.... 28	
Omitted 		.... 1	
Extra		....	48	3
HIGH AND LOW FRICKS—
Monday on the New York 14 stocks made new highs and new lows for the year 1936.
Stock Exchange two stocks made
New Highs—
Am Chicle ... Andes Copp n. Brtwiw Uatke Cerro del'anro.
CollAAk pf cld New Lx)w»—
CrownCppf xm
Conde Nm1 . . Gen tfAklnc . Hercules Kwd.
Kiufminn OS Cetin & Fink
MliuiHon It pf Norf A West Shen no on pt Unit Biscuit. .
Morrell & Co.
demonstrated around the time of the French devaluation had been weakened subsequently.
From a Dow theory standpoint, the market has broken out of a line formation which ran from October 7. Sometimes, the initial move is a false one and it must be watched closely.
•	• o
FOREIGN OPERATIONS---------
Brokers with foreign connections described their business from abroad as moderate in volume and mixed as to buy and sell orders This tended to remove European selling as the cause of the market’s poorer behavior. The London Stock Exchange wa^ irregular before our market opened, and the Amsterdam Bourse was weaker.
There was a tendency in brokerage circles to comment upon the report that two Russian ships had passed through the Suez Canal destined for Barcelona with supplies from Vladivostok. The possibility of an incident growing out of the activities of foreign ships supplying materials to belligerents in the Spanish Civil War is causing a little nervousness abroad as well as here, but traders have been existing under the threat of major European trouble for months and may be compelled to do so for many months more and they cannot suspend activities altogether waiting for more amicable relations in Europe
BIDS FEWER—
What the market suffered from more than anything else was the scarcity of bids in numerous representative issues. Offerings during the morning were not outstandingly heavy but the offerers found themselves at an immediate disadvantage which tended to become accentuated as the day progressed. In the type of markets we have been having lately it is more important in attempting to anticipate reactions to probe for periods when investment demand may be slower, rather -than, as in the past, when speculation may have been overplayed, for the margin rules continue to leave the market in the hands of Investors. With the elections almost on top of the market, nervous traders who delayed lightening up last week got off to a bad start as this week opened.
• * *
RAILS—
Support for several railroad stocks has been poorer recently. This is particularly noticeable In the case of Southern Railway preferred, Delaware & Hudson and New York Central. These are issues that have been prime trading favorites with Wall Street commission houses and recent setbacks probably have left several of the margined traders with unprofitable positions. Atchison’s behavior, following a buying recommendation by a leading house about 10 days ago, has not been inspiring.
The fact that railroad traffic may have seen its peak for the year no doubt is a factor in the lessened demand for rail shares. There is no good reason why railroad stocks should not be bought in a period of seasonal slackness in traffic as well as just prior to a seasonal bulge but speculators are not prone to follow out-of-sea-son tactics and it is surprising how often the market action justifies this behavior. Steel stocks have been unpopular for the same reason, that a seasonal operating peak may have been seen, although the labor situation also is a factor on the action of these shares.
* • •
BUSINESS NEWS—
Business news on the whole has been more encouraging than otherwise but there are some spots that are being watched carefully. One has been the recent quieter demand for machine tools, attributed to the tax levy on undistributed income and to election uncertainties. Another has been poorer demands for structural steels. In both cases it is the strictly capital goods lines that are affected. The election aftermath may very well clear up this situation, or it may intensify the causes for recent hesitancy. In any event, since both reemployment and budget balancing are involved in a further expansion of durable goods, there is reason to watch the trend of events late this year or early next.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.