Abreast of the Market: Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 21, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
Market Diary
Call mooej reaewaJ ........
Tlnx tnooev* M day* ..... Aceetrtaiw. »0 tfaya ......
Commercial Paper ..........
Praam, cables ..........
SterilBff, cable* .......
New York bank rate ......
Reserve System ratio ... -
Copper. Scmeotla ......... Lead, New York ...........
Silver. New York .........
Pteel scrap	Ne. !>..
23nc. East St. Loots........
Put ares> Coffee. Rio. December . . Corn, December . .	.
Cotton. December .....
Hides. December ...	.
Oats.* December ..........
Robber, December .........
SfTk, raw, December - • • Snrar. raw. No. 3. March . Tin. Standard. December. . Wheat. December ..........
Wool tops, December ......
BY ROBffiT LAFFAN
Further pronounced advances occurred in Wednesday’s trading, the industrial averages gaining nearly 8 points, rails 2% points and utilities 2 points. Volume of trading continued at an active pace, totaling 4,340,000 shares, though well under the previous day’s big turn-, over. Commodity markets were stronger and
the bond market improved.
Some of the more extreme gains occurred in du Pont which was up 10% points, American Can, Union Pacific Westinghouse Electric and Allied Chemical which were up 7 to 9 points. American Telephone, Chrysler, Sears-Roebuck and International Harvester advanced 5 points or more.
Buyers who had missed the previous day's opportunity to acquire shares at the lower levels were compelled to reach steadily for their favorites and price levels tended to push forward to the close, final prices being around the highs for the day. U. S. Steel camion was a backward issue, rather conspicously so, for it showed a slight loss on the day. At one time the stock showed a good gain but later selling shaded that gain. Other steels did well, though some of the gains In this department were not up to the performance of other shares.
The market encountered some realizing in the early afternoon and it was during this period that Steel common lost some of the earlier improvement. The general market, however, was well supported during the irregularity and higher price levels developed in the final hour.
Rails turned in a good performance, rumors
of favorable developments on the freight rate situation accompanying the rise. However, improvement was warranted strictly on the technical merits x>f the market situation for rails had suffered severely in the decline.
• * *
EXPORT MARKET—
Great Britain, Japan and Russia, particularly the two latter, continue to negotiate in this country for machine tools and machinery on a fairly active scale. Evidently the export market for these products has not dried up quite as much as the domestic market. Great Britain also is reported to be in the market for semifinished steel. Iron Age estimates that about 100,000 tons of semi-finished steel and possibly that much finished steel may be placed for British account over the remainder of this year. European bids for our steel have been lowered somewhat, the assumption being that lower domestic operations should permit a reduced price.
The foreign market for many American-made products has been giving a good account of itself for some months. Export demand for automobiles during the past summer was exceptionally good and It remained vigorous even during the periods when domestic buying slackened somewhat.
• • •
OILS—
Some large blocks of oil stocks were eagerly snapped up in Tuesday's session. One Wall Street man remarked he was reminded of the occasion in 1929 when the late John I>. Rockc-
feller issued his famous announcement that “my son and I are buying stocks” and turned the market. While no such dramatic announcement from the Rockefeller interests accompanied buying in oils*and other pivotal shares early this week, there were indications that broad purchasing was under way through the various buying agencies for that account. Gen-PZeose Turn fa	Eight
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Abreast of the Market
1	Continued from Page Seventeen
eral Electric and U. S. Steel were mentioned amoung the plvotals accumulated.
In addition to the buying which came into leading oils for the Rockefeller Interests, there was some large scale outside accumulation this week for individuals and investment companies. Oils have long been favorites with large holders of stocks, this group ranking with the chemicals as the blue ribber groups.
ODD LOT SAXES —
The odd lot operator did not come off so well in Tuesday's market. After being a persistent buyer through the early stages of the decline in the market, odd lot customers turned, or were forced to turn, to the selling side at around the time when the lowest levels of the year were being recorded in hundreds of issues. It was the fourth time since the SEC began publishing odd Tot transactions that the so-called little fellow sold more stock than he bought. The excess of odd lot sales over purchases on Tuesday was reported larger than on any of the previous three occasions. Of course, it was the biggest trading session in four years and that would account for the increased volume of selling as compared with the other occasions. But the fact that odd lot selling on balance took place at around the low levels for the move, after previous steady buying, was a point against those who have been contending that the odd lot operator has been showing greater shrewdness in this market.
Actually, market shrewdness is a variable thing and the same people are not always making the right moves all the time. Some “insiders” were badly caught in this market decline but as a general rule the veteran Wall Street trader prefers to string along with what wealthier and more informed Individuals are doing. Many have been contending for some time that what was needed to produce a climax was a heavy volume of trading in which odd lot transactions showed a selling.
preponderance of
WORLD MARKETS-------
One straw which serves thoroughly liquidated world come is the way the Italian _____________
the announcement of a capital levy on business. Prices promptly rallied on this news previous declines having discounted the development. The nature of the levy was Bald to have been less drastic than anticipated, which is merely another way of saying that the market had been fearing and discounting the worst. This may well be true of the more important security markets In Europe and In this country.
If the markets generally have overdiscounted actual or threatened events and if the European war clouds clear up, as now seems probable in view of Italy's willingness to cooperate in Spain, the markets might move ahead for a considerable period as dramatically as they declined.
to Illustrate how markets have be-Bourse reacted to
HOW THEY STAND—
Since October 1 ..	84
.. 11 ..	27
Additions esterday IS
Increased Earnings:
Industrials .....
Rails............
Utilities .......
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials .....
Rails ...........
UtMties.................
Wednesday on the New ... __________________
change no stock made a new high and 6R stocks made new lows ‘	‘
New Lows—
35
30
13 York
for the year 1937.
Y<
2
&
1
Stock Ex-
Coal ice pr
AUec pf 40 w aiUed Kid Amal Ixa pf.
Am "	‘
Am .	_
Am Newi Is 1 Am W W 1 pf Anaecn W X C Anu III pr pf .
Atchison pf .
AIIaa l’ovd pf Barker Bro* pr Bayuk C 1 pf. Bent Cr pfww Beth Steel 7 pi Brawn Shoe . Col* r«Um pf. Cream Wheat. Crucible Btl pf Cortis Fab pr DavejfoB pf.
Deere A Co pl nut b< pt ww
Phi! Joaei* of. FhoeiUx Hok 1‘und Crk l*o. rob Ser NJSpf Quaker 8t oil
Safeway 7pf Hl L 8 W C. KbeoSer Pen.
Shell Un oil pf Spicer Pf A 8td Brands pi Ttir Fair .
Unit O Imp pf U B DUtrfb pf U 8 llofltn pi Univ Pict 1 pt Va Kr CiC pi Walxreen pf wv» Walk. GXWpf.
West P El *7 pf Wilson *8 pl. Worth P pl A
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.