Selling Wave Hits Commodity, Security Markets: Weakness Abroad ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 27, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Selling Wave
Hits Commodity, Security Markets
Weakness Abroad Followed -by Sweeping- Declines in New .York Transactions
Cause Difficult to Evaluate
Major security and commodity markets of the world broke sharply yesterday on persistent large-scale liquidation.
Ney' York securities exchanges suffered the •mast severe-slump since July 26, 1934. The Dow-Jpncs industrial average was off 5.01 points, as 290 stocks made new lows for the year.
London and Paris markets recorded the same general story, while a wave of liquidation hit the Amsterdam Bourse.
The London Financial Times industrial stock index fell to a 1937 low, dropping 2.2 points to
129.6. In Faris, where many French bank and industrial shares were off 5% to 10%, Rentes slumped to post-devaluation lows.
Cause of Slump
The immediate cause of these extremely sharp market breaks was difficult to evaluate.
New York financial circles were rife with, rumors concerning a “bad situation” in London, but responsible London cables denied that anything unusual was on foot. Meanwhile, British markets reverberated with reports of a change in United States gold policy, a rumor definitely and explicitly denied many times in the past. It was denied again yesterday.
Actually, the New York break was ascribed in many quarters to the belief that speculative excitement late last year and early this year
PZeoae turn to page 9, column 3
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
World Markets Slump
--------(Continued from First Page) ■ lias produced some maladjustments which may have to be corrected by a temporary recession of industrial and business activity. This view is shared by a number of government economists, who, at the. same time hold that the corrective recession will be neither severe nor long, and will, in turn, be followed by an even sharper upward movement.
London Markets
So far as the London market is concerned, there appears to have been a top heavy speculation position in both securities and commodities. and consequent shocks to the market have caused liquidation sufficient to uncover many weak bull positions This weakness, it now appears, was much more widespread than originally realized. It was considered logical that such a situation in London might have resulted in selling of American securities here. How extensive such a movement might have been is indeterminate.
As the New York and London situations developed, the Pans Bourse had to contend not only with the world-wide slump in securities and commodities but with an unfavorable domestic position, growing in intensity.
Paris financial circles were reported impressed by the strong demands made by recent mass demonstrations on the part of the French Labor Federation. It seems likely that French Labor is about to demand further concessions from the government, before French business; has had time to adjust itself to the concessions 1 already gained by Labor.	j
Movement of capital out of France was resumed yesterday, with the French Control again ■ forced to intervene to support the franc The1 new French defense loan fell to a new low of 94.30 francs
Internationals were unable to resist the general tendency in Pari6 and all categories declined. Offers were generally heavy and encountered little bidding.
Amsterdam Bourse
Amsterdam’s break was regarded as largely sympathetic with the world trend. The Bourse opened with a depressed Lone influenced by Saturday’s session in New York, while the lower opening in New York yesterday was the signal for another selling wave.	;
In New York, the Dow-Jones industrial average broke to 171.97, the lowest point since October 2. 3 936.
Taking their clue from the weak session Saturday in New York, foreign markets were heavy before the iocal opening.
Sole major outstanding exceptions to the general trend were British government bonds in London, which are still benefiting from investment demand, which has been switched from stocks by the new excess profits tax, and the • world sugar market, which received support from optimistic cables of progress being made in the London conference
Dow-Jones Commodity Index Breaks
Reflecting tbe general weakness in world commodity markets, the Dow-Jones index of commodity futures broke 1 61 points, the most extensive decline since April 16. 1934. As com-
pared with the year’s high of S2.44 on March 30, the index has lost 9.4%.
Heavy selling broke out in cotton, grain, rubber, copper and silk. Cottonseed oil futures broke into new low ground for the season.
Both the London and New York stock rackets have a point in common in that the metal shares are following the lead of the commodity markets. With metal markets weak, mining shares dropped in London while in New York copper, steel and rubber shares were leaders on the downside.
The New York market picked up volume as the decline progressed and the ticker was three minutes behind the market at the close. Share turnover increased to 2,020,000 shares from 1,200.000 on Friday.
The foreign exchange market reported no unusual business coming from security houses. Sterling was active and firm, but most of this is understood to have come from gold financing with some Japanese and French buying.
Steadiness in foreign exchanges was an important development for the local market. It indicated probability that the selling from abroad was more of a trading nature with the funds being left here for future disposition rather than an outright withdrawal from the American markets.
FARIS (By Reuter)—After the meeting of the cabinet council Monday evening, at which he outlined the French financial situation. Financial Minister Vincent Auriol told the press that the Treasury situation is satisfactory and that the French government has no intention to issue any other long term loan other than that offered on March 11. He emphatically denied rumors current on the Bourse Monday to the effect that certain members of the technical committee, which is managing the French exchange equalization fund, have resigned.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.