Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 14, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 17
A breast of
the Market
market is still In effect or whether the turn has come.	"
SUGAR QUOTAS—
Intimations from ■Washington that at least part of the administrative forces might abandon efforts for extension of sugar quota control •were not taken too seriously by holders of sugar securities who follow trade developments, as it was felt that control could not be abandoned without far reaching consequences to the market for the commodity. Discarding control would affect producers in various areas differently- The beet sugar companies would probably come in for some sharp competition from duty free insular producers if they were unrestricted. Porto Rican duty free producers would be in position to sell a larger amount of their product in this country. Summing it all up, the latest development was looked upon as just another phase of the'day to day changes at Washington, with indications that a compromise bill carrying a 54.-cent tax would result finally.
stream market
-_______ uncon-
and short-lived and served merely to ' tne technical position of the list There was evidence or
to a steady
____	_____=	Thursday’s
What rallies occurred were
Stocks were subj ected of liquidation throughout session, vincing indicate that tl— — was still vulnerable. -------
a resumption of foreign selling which contributed to the pressure on stocks. Weakness was not confined to any section but speard out through all groups. The Dow-Jones industrial average at the close was 4.78 points lower at 167.46. Twenty rails lost 1.62 at 57 27 and twenty utilities 0.86 at 27.17.
Selling1 was also pronounced in commodities, most of which registered sharp declines. Banks stock and bonds were lower.
DOW THEORY—
Failure of the recent resistance levels to hold indicated that the Intermediate downward movement in stocks had not yet run its course and that the recent rally was merely a minor phase of the swing. Under the Dow theory, however, averages are still well within the limits of a corrective reaction following the strong market of last year If the market runs true to form there should be a fairly sustained rally when the present selling wave has exhausted Its strength. Action on subsequent rallies would then be Indicative of whether the major bull
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
TAKING OT THE SLACK—
While there undoubtedly has been a slackening of demand noted in certain Industries, this appears to be due largely to the fact that middlemen customers of these Industries in the late Winter and early Spring did some overstocking of Inventory to assure themselves a sufficiency of raw material in the event of strikes at suppliers’ plants. These consumers appear to be using up this inventory now. Inventory buying at present is almost entirely for Immediate needs. Retail buying, although somewhat slowed up, Is still at high levels and demand from rural sections, as reflected in business of mail order houses, leaves little to cavil at. So long as goods continue moving into consumption some falling off in raw material demand may Indicate merely that business is catch.ng up with temporary overstocking, talng up^the
p ehenslon business.
necessarily provide grounds for apover the long range outlook for
TOOLS—
MACHINE
One of the bright signs in the business picture Is the strong demand for machine tools The National Machine Tool Builders Association’s Index of orders for April reached a new peak, 33% better than March, 10% above December, the previous peak and more than double the April, 1936, figure.
BREAD AND CAKE—
Major bread and cake bakers, after getting off to a poor start this year, anticipate a better second quarter showing. Increased labor and material costs which affected first quarter results are being offset by higher prices received for their products, which should be reflected in current quarter reports. Sales In March and April were at record levels and Increased volume should have Its normal beneficial effect upon profit margins. First quarter earnings were also affected adversely by strikes in various Industries, reducing sales of bread and cake. With many of the plants which were closed by labor trouble now operating at full capacity, public purchasing power in these sections has been increased and In some localities capacity is proving Inadequate. The industry has followed the prevailing trend In respect to wages and gradually increasing payments to labor are expected. It Is hoped, however, that with purchasing power boosted throughout the country by higher pay, increased sales will absorb the higher operating costs with little or no effect upon profit margins.