Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 26, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
The immediate occasion for the abrupt reversal in form was the behavior of Chrysler which jtold in the neighborhood of 60 in' the figs. Suddenly trading In that issue ided as large bids came In and offer-hard to find. Nearly an hour later a K.000 shares changed bands at 64, » preceding sale ot 60%. This evidence arket could show extreme thinness on r side upon occasion frightened the est and before long the entire market, g up at a brisk pace. Steel common, _ dropped to a new low at 31% re-
_______ o 38% for a net gain of more than 5 points.
Westinghouse Electric jumped from a low ot 90 to 100. American Smelting, American Telephone, Bethlehem Steel, Johns Manville and numerous other issues were sharp gainers. Allied Chemical soared 10 points and du Font 128%.
Rails .gave a good account of themselves, gaining 1.72 points in the averages. Utilities wens up 1.27 points and industrials 7.28 points.
Bond prices Improved and the commodity markets turned firmer.
TECHNICAL STRENGTH—	-
While the market is not'obtaining much support from business reports, -which are now more noticeably poor, it has nevertheless given tbe second Indication of technical strength within a week. The first came last Tuesday, when nearly 7,300,000 shares were absorbed without price loss on the day. Yesterday’s was "	~
when the market, broadly, held week’s low points despite weakness the pivotal issues. This secondary the manner in which It was absorbed offered some hope that a stronger rallying movement may get under way carrying the averages back at least to the levels prevailing early in October.
If technical probabilities are as good as they now appear, tbe market should not require any conspicuous support from business figures any more than it required .conspicuously bearish business news in August, when it turned lower. Better market action could easily bring more favorable interpretations of evicting business figures. In any event, improvement has come at a time when sentiment was pretty generally depressed and such sentiment can easily be turned around. At least. Wall Street's views
the second above last in some, of selling? and
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.