Abreast of the Market: Market Diary Abreast of the Market BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 13, 1937; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 15
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Lower prices again proved to be insufficient inducement to turn the tide in the stock market Monday. In spite of the past week’s decline, the market continued to explore new low regions over a wide front.
Volume of trading picked up to 1.750,000 shares against 1,150,000 shares on Friday. Industrial issues lost 5.14 points, sinking to a new low at 138.79. Rails were down 1.99 points to 35.40 and utilities were down Sl-100 to 21.80. All three losses carried those groups to new low levels.
Rails and steels were some of the heavier losers percentagewise. Steel common and Bethlehem with losses running to 5 points or more stood out. Coppers and motors were hard hit, while rail equipments, chemicals, merchandising issues, electrical equipments, building material issues and oils were carried down.
Selling activities were conducted in a deliberate fashion, offerings coming in with steady persistence. The few occasions when offerings lightened witnessed a slight improvement m the
price level but the close saw about the worst levels of the day.
Commodity markets were again severely . depressed, grains particularly. The bond market was generally easier.
• • •
FOREIGN MARKETS—
In this market it is difficult to distinguish cause from effect, and the world markets currently have gotten into a position where one is down because the other is ana the vicious circle is maintained until neither Europe nor the United States is certain where the most pressing liquidation is coming from. Something like this occurred at the beginning of the year when copper prices were being advanced here because Europe had advanced them, and with Europe advancing the metal still further because the United States had followed. Such conditions are bizarre and while the damage is severe while markets run their course, the hopeful side of It is that they cannot continue indefinitely for even the bull market in copper carried the germ of its own destruction when it got to that stage.
European markets reported that their unsettlement yesterday developed out of the Italian refusal to join in discussions concerning Spain, but the market action actually seemed to have gotten to a stage where news counted for little, whether good or bad, and liquidation merely was feeding on itself and producing more liquidation.	.
* • •
MACHINE TOOLS—
Foreigners may have their own worries over the military and political outlook but they are still extremely good customers of American machine tool makers. Perhaps some of the machine tool buying is for armament programs, but In any event they have been strong buyers here. The National Marbir* * Tool Builders Association reports the second successive monthly increase in new machine tool orders in Sep-
HOW THEY STAND—
increased Earnings:	.
Industrials ............
Raffs ..................
Utilities ..............
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials ..............
Rails ..................
Utilities...............
Since Additions
Octobex 1 Monday 12	4
3	..
17	..
3	..
8	1
2	1
tember. Foreign orders were more than sufficient to offset a slump in domestic buying.
Many of the machine tool companies are now in a position to accept foreign orders, having depleted some of their backlogs of unfilled business which earlier this year compelled them to adopt double shifts. Several companies actually had to turn down some foreign orders during the spring for they could not promise delivery and they wanted to favor their old line domestic customers.
• • •
RESTRICTED ACCOUNTS—
The market’s poor rallying power Is explained in some measure by statistics on margin accounts of 19 New York Stock Exchange members which show that buying power by traders is small. Latest figures, those of September 20, show that 47.1% of the accounts were in the restricted class, which means that the original 55% margin had been reduced, thereby making that account Ineligible for further trading until its purchasing power had recovered. This situation has led to a demand for a reduction in margins but it does not seem likely that reducing margins would have any major effect on market prices. Many impartial observers would like to see margins reduced, but not in connection with current market weakness. The stock purchaser has been discriminated against by demanding an extremely strong percentage of cash to finance purchases of shares. Meanwhile, credit accommodations everywhere else have been liberalized The current decline in the market should prove the fallacy of the thought that trading on light margins caused the 1929 setback, or that 55% margins can be effective Please turn to Page Pour
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
______—Continued from Page Fifteen
in preventing a concentrated deflationary market movement.
• • •
STEEL—
The American Iron & Steel Institute’s estimate on steel operations starting this week, placing the rate at 63.6% of capacity, a drop of 2% points from the preceding -week, again provided an unsatisfactory background for the steel shares. This carries the rate a little under the level which Wall Street thought would mark the bottom for the fall recession and it indicates that seasonal influences, which are usually on the side of expansion at this time, have not been powerful enough to have any noticeable effect. The absence of railroad buying, and tapering in construction, -which has lately made itself felt in smaller orders for steel pipe, probably is being felt in the steel trade. Nevertheless, it is hoped that sufficient new busmess can be counted upon to sustain the production level without further notable declines.
* * *
BRITISH VIEW—
The London banking firm of Leopold, Joseph & Sons sees America as the key to the worldwide business situation. "For America is so dominant an influence In the world’s commodity markets that if American business is not prosperous there can be no hope of maintenance of the primary communities’ purchasing power. It can be said at once that from this standpoint the violence of the collapse on Wail Street need not be taken too tragically. The voluminous SEC regulations and the anti-market attitude of the Administration generally have so narrowed the market and made it technically so non-resistant that the price declines have been out of all proportion to the influences that have precipitated them.' But, with that qualification, there was certainly justification for weakness." The justification is attributed to the fact that price levels had discounted an autumn rise whereas it now seems evident there will be no autumn revival. Nevertheless, long-term prospects in America are viewed with confidence.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.