Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 10, 1937;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Market Diary
on money renml....... Ttm* tuoney, SO day*..... aifWfnf, 90 days..........
Ocmnarctal pan er.........
Francs. mMm ..............
a—iPiir. cmbiss ..........
New xark bank rata........
ireauiru System ratio.....
Copper, domeotte.......... laad. Mew Toric...........
Sliver. New Yortc.........
Steel oerap (Htt*. No. 1> -. Zine. East su Ixmt* •
mtorew:
Coffee. Bio. December .. . Cam. December ............
Cotten. December .........
Hides. December ..........
Oat*. December............
Itnbber. December .......
SUlc. saw. December ......
Sayar. raw. March ........
Un. Standard. December... Wheat, December ..........
Wool. to»«, December ....
BY ROBERT IxAFTAN
Spirits were calmer in Wall btreet 1 hurs-day. An opening bulge in prices signified that much of the distressed liquidation had been removed. Shorts were compelled to reach for stock through the morning and leading issues moved up fairly briskly for a time. Later, the market became more quiet but the better part of the price gains were maintained.
Industrials finished 2.99 points higher. Rails were up 1.13 points and utilities 66-100 points. Volume of trading declined to 1,410,000 shares against 2,260,000 shares the day before. Bonds were steadier and commodities were mixed.
Foreign news appeared to be no better, but foreign markets were stronger and this gave our list its initial impetus. Steel common, Chrysler, Anaconda, Sears Roebuck, International Harvester, Texas Corp, and other representative leaders were available only at overnight price increases of 2 points or more. These issues, in the main, never relinquished those gains although there was some tapering off in the late dealings. The market attempted to extend the rally several times but ran into offerings. There was a sprinkling of liquidation in a number of industrial specialties, forcing them slightly into new low ground. Some delayed liquidation and profit taking by traders lucky enough to have bought the day before helped to hold gains in check.
* * *
RESTRICTED ACCOUNTS—
Possibilities of a broad trading market for the immediate future would appear to be rather slim judging from latest statistics on the number of restricted accounts. Surveys as of the close Wednesday night showed an average of 60% of the accounts of member firms frozen. This is a much larger percentage than during the June break, as might be expected for the number of issues declining has been substantially enlarged and deeper losses have been suffered, particularly in popular priced issues.
At one time in June it is understood about 40% to 45% of the accounts were frozen. The July rally thawed many of them. Three weeks ago only about half as many accounts were frozen as on Wednesday of this week.
* * •
WIDE SWINGS—
With tbe possibilities of broad public trading, or professional sponsorship, seemingly removed for the present, there is still a chance of wide trading swings for the thinness of the market has now become the dynamic factor in the situation, taking the place of broad trading by the public and professionals. In fact, one trader who is not a member and does not have to worry about commissions has remarked that he cannot see any basis for complaints by professionals who. are other than members, for the strictly trading opportunities, he points out. were never better.
* * •
HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES—
Slower tendencies in residential building through the summer months have had some influence on household appliance sales. During June, July and August oil burner sales, for instance, are estimated to have run about 12% behind a year ago. Another factor that may affect oil burner sales to some extent is the tightening in credit terms by the big finance companies. The latter is not expected to have noticeable effect on aggregate sales and a renewal of the upward strides in residential building is the main consideration. Such an improvement would bring automatic increase in orders for oil burner equipment. The only place where stricter credit terms might be a factor is in replacement sales. Even then, only that fringe of the potential market where the buyer could not afford a reasonable down payment would be Involved.
The building industry has many related lines of trade, and monthly figures on permits and awards are being watched with unusual interest, for it is recognized that to a large extent the stock market and the recovery movement in general is dependent upon it.
• • *
MONTGOMERY WARD—
Mail order companies have resisted the narrowing spread m sales gains over a year ago better than most other merchandisers, but they too lately have found it more difficult making favorable comparisons with a year ago. Montgomery Ward’s August gain was 8 2-10% over the like month a year ago, against 16.7% in July and 25% for the seven months. Probably 5% of the increase for August was due to price changes between this year and last, which means that unit sales were only slightly ahead.
The mail order companies usually make the important part of their income in the late months of the year. Good crops and sustained farm purchasing power are helping the mail order companies to make a better showing than some of the stores in the eastern cities where
resistance to bighay prices has been a little more marked.
* • ♦
yiJRS
August fur sales of eastern department stores were distinctly disappointing and some of them are planning further sales this month. Unusually hot weather last month may have been a contributing factor. Some stores that specialize in furs have come to question the wisdom of such offerings in hot weather. This year special efforts were made to move furs because stocks on hand were quite liberal. In fact, they still are much larger than at this time a year ago, when there was a big demand for luxury goods.
The September offerings will be considered a better gauge of public purchasing power for weather conditions are more favorable. On the other hand, stock market conditions are less favorable and this is also an important consideration. Nevertheless, that is one of the things that also must be tested currently, namely, to what extent the market .iction has affected spending of this type.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.