Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN.
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 15, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 17
Abreast of
BY ftOBEBT
LlAFKA>J
Lower * prices prevailed from trading as the new week opened, emphasis on less satisfactory* features of the foreign situation, recognition of the fact that utilities and certain rails and industrials had made little progress in the post-election rally and the prospect that tax selling might influence a reactionary* trend were all factors in the softening in stock prices.	_
Steel common opened with a letdown of more than a point. Operating figures for the industry moved up to a new peak but the rate of gain was leas inspiring and possibly traders felt that not much more in the way of gains could be expected between now and the holiday curtailment period. Coppers continued ready to yvsld on any pick up in selling and rubbers lost their recent buoyancy on fears that production might be stepped rp for the first quarter of 1939. Crude rubber also was weaker.
Rails showed little promise of following up last week’s fractional bulge to new high ground. Rail issues that had been prominent in last week’s heavy turnover dropped back fractionally to a point from their highs and became quite dull. Easier tendencies in such utilities as North American. Consolidated Edison. Commonwealth & Southern preferred and Columbia Gas operated as a brake on enthusiasm elsewhere in the utility group
There was little evidence of a rally at any time. Motors and steels stiffened slightly in the early afternoon but gains were not sustained. There was little selling on the setback either. Bond prices gave a little ground generally.
start of
thr
A little more
BAIL TRAFFIC—
Rail traffic figures that have made an appearance for tbe latest week are not particularly inspiring- Two holidays in the past week apparently did not help loadings. The week before. it was a deficient coal movement that held back traffic. Tbe net result is that November thus far is not living up to the brilliant promise of October when there was strong evidence of contraseasonal strength In the rail freight movement.
Traders on the intermediate swings in rail shares are postponing their hopes until early 1939, believing that immediate favorable possibilities have been fairly thoroughly discounted. The October earnings reports should help to sustain rail shares. For the new year, however, much depends upon the degree to which Congress is willing to assist the railroad industry. If any long pull confidence is to be built up in the rail industry, this -a the time to expect it. in the opinion of followers of these shares. If interest in the rail problem is allowed to languish again, merely because business is a little better, the rails may have few long pull supporters, for it is noted that taxes and wage expenses are taking an increasing proportion of total revenues.
current disturbances in Germany, developments of the past few days have taken tbe fine edge off the better feeling that was engendered in late September. This somewhat more cautious viewpoint is heightened by the fact that at no time since September, barring the initial automatic rally in stock prices there, has there been any clear evidence of trade revival pictured on the London Stock Exchange.
The slumping tendency in the pound and the franc also has revived speculative talk about the future of the dollar. Many feel that our trade prospects would be penalised too severely if the pound were permitted to work substantially lower and that ultimately the dollar would have to be cheapened.
pound had a soft-prices. In the case influences were at
FOREIGN EXCHANGE—
Many investors would feel more bullish currently if. somehow, the United States could isolate itself from the rest of the world. Readiness of the British pound to slump on any provocation and the heaviness in British and .Amsterdam stock markets yesterday revived the European political situation as a topic of conversation in Wall Street. It was the first time since September that European politics has attracted more than passing attention. While no one la anticipating any broad repercussions from
RUBBER—
Weakness in the British enlng effect upon commodity of rubber, however, special
work. Rubber interests in Akron are inclined to look for some increase in the quota of allowable exports when the International Rubber Regulation Committee meets in London today The quota has been restricted to 45% for the last half of the current year, but. with consumption rising in this	*	‘ '
to be justification vent an unhealthy of the commodity.
World stocks of due to the limited crease in the quota mlt production to rise more in line with demand by the first quarter of next year. While this would be a stabilizing influence, there was a little selling in rubber shares and in the commodity yesterday. Speculators apparently re-
country, there would appear for increased output to pre-and unsound rise in the price
rubber have been curtailed export allowance An into 50% or 55% might per-
COPPER—
While the tape action of copper shares has not been altogether inspiring, and Anaconda and Kennecott have been especially backward due to fears that Chile might have designs on properties in that country, coppers still have many faithful followers in Wall Street who are recommending purchases of these Issues in any reactionary periods.
Fears of foreign confiscation are regarded as exaggerated. The copper situation itself, meanwhile, is regarded as healthy for unlike late 1936, there has been little over-buying. It is estimated that the equivalent of about one month’s supply has been put under contract for 1939 delivery. This is not enough to cause any concern, certainly not if the present predictions of durable goods revival are well founded. Progress of the building and automotive industries, together with scattered evidence of commercial construction, do not suggest that the copper demands of recent months have been specula-i live. Some Wall Street houses are inclined to * look for another buying wave in copper to as-i sert itself before long.
STEEL—
; This week’s bulge In steel production was I less sensational than that of the preceding week, the American Iron & Steel Institute schedule being 62.6Cc, a gain of 1.6 points over last week. The publication “Steel” anticipates some leveling off in steel making after the 10 point spurt of the past three weeks. Sheet and strip mills are regarded in a good position to maintain active operations the remainder of the year. To what extent forward buying during the recent price weakness will affect production at some later date will be determined by the rate of consumption during the next 60 days. However, since producers have indicated all low-price tonnage must be shipped before the end of the year. “Steel” regards the near-term operating outlook as favorable.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.