Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 4, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 17
BOW THK3? STAND—	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:,	-	Mayl	Yesterday
. Industrials 		fl	. -2
Kails 				‘ 1	e *
Utilities 		«	4 ,
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrial* 		29	11
Ralls .............	rJL	
Utilities 			»	.	7
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS— ,
Tuesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, two stocks made new highs and seven stocks made new lows for the year 1938.
New Highs—	'
on .ms st	,BoUass nt st
New Lows—	“
OM oaa ot a	Mdi Sones nt.	aeboam M -KM Btaentt .	MCta Ct pt.	U A Steal St-
Wor am EC p>	.	____
BY ROBERT LATTAN
The small volume accompanying Monday’s setback offered an excuse to test the upside of the market yesterday Resistance to the advance was not formidable and prices moved up fairly easilv. There was a moderate expansion in activity, with a few fair-sized blocks of stock changing hands occasionally, but the session hardly could be described as other than dull throughout.
• The London market was easier but prices strengthened in Amsterdam. Prices here bobbed up immediately after the opening and then settled down mto a quiet rut. The lack ot offerings and the ability to maintain the initial gains soon encouraged further advances and some at the pivotal industrials had gained 1 to more than 2 points by midday.
Aircraft issues enjoyed a rather good following. The upturn, in fact, pivoted around these issues. Coppers, steels and motors swung into line and the chemical issues bulged notably since they have a short interest outstanding of fair proportions for these days of limited volume. Union Carbide and du Font bounced'up easily.
Rails gave a fair account ot themselves. Atchison was outstanding with a rise of 1% points on the day, being helped by estimates for a record crop harvest in that road's territory. The rail average gained 0.50 points, industrials were up 2.62 points and utilities gained 0.4.1 points.	•
. ■ • *
residential building projects may be discouraged altogether.	■
CHARTISTS—	nos
Chartists are treating yesterday’s upturn as technical in character. ■ The industrials at Monday’s lows had filled the gap left in the April 9 upturn, and after more than a week of fairly steady declines some upturn appeared called for. While strength may continue for a spell, the bulk of opinion leans to the view that the business background is not strong' enough to Support a sustained advance and that rails will not top the April 9 high of 22.75. Could the rails find an excuse to push through that level, the technical action would look much more reassuring.	■
aircraft—
Interest in aircraft stocks has been heightened by the good technical performance they have given during the past week or so. In this period the more active industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages have retreated six to eight points, but the aircraft issues have given surprisingly little ground and have always been within range of the peak levels of last month.
In addition to the favorable technical implications there is, of course, the added appeal arising out of possible British orders. Even if some of the American manufacturers never receive a British order as a consequence of the visit of the British commission, the proposed inspection has served to bring out the favorable operating position of the aircraft industry generally and the well-filled order books of leading makers. While preferences ot the British officials cannot be known, Wall Street is inclined to feel that, based strictly on the type of planes ■mwnnfwr.tiire.rt. Boeing, Consolidated, DouglaB and Martin (G. L.) should be leading candidates for prospective foreign orders.
TECHNICOLOR—
Technicolor has managed to survive the market collapse of the past year reasonably well, notwithstanding the fact that movie companies generally have had a difficult time of it. If one were to .Uminat. the short-lived advance in the stock from May to August of 1937, the issue would be holding its ground particularly well. In other words, it would have been possible to have bought this stock anytime in the first quarter of 1937, say in the neighborhood of 20-22, and show little loss at current levels.
The stock strengthened yesterday on official estimates that first quarter profits amounted to 8361,339 against $100,670 in the 1937 period and $468,169 for the full year 1937. Last year's profit amounted to 58 cents a share on 803,081 shares. The stock is liberally discounting earnings at current levels, but this is to be expected in an issue that enjoys an unique position in what has all the earmarks of a growing industry. It is estimated that 72,100,000 feet of film has been sold for this year, against 40,561,000 feet last year.
EARNINGS AND DIVIDENDS—	'
It is difficult to generate a broadly rising market or a sustained upturn in the face oi some of the earnings and dividend actions that are converging upon the market at this point. General Railway Signal was a soft feature yesterday, reflecting the earnings report of the previous day showing 3 cents earned for the preferred in tbe first quarter against 1 cent on the common in the like quarter a year ago. Ludlum Steel’s omission of tbe common dividend, and Hudson Motor's report showing a net loss of 51,530,481, against a net profit In the like quarter a year ago, also were anything but Inspiring.
Kennecott's first quarter results, . however, estimated at the annual meeting, were not bad considering tbe extent of the curtailment in operations. Earnings of 32 cents a share were estimated for the period. Earnings are not usually reported other than semi-annually. This year's net obviously is sharply under last year for $2.47 a share was earned in tbe first half of 1937 and 84 cents was earned in tbe first half of 1936. The most encouraging comment was that fabricators had reduced stocks by 70% since last October and that consumers’ stocks were sharply reduced.
. • • •
LABOR—
The continuation of labor disputes, particularly those in the Detroit area, is not reassuring those who expected that the least the depression might do would be to bring about more peaceful labor conditions. Renewed troubles have broken out at the ’ Chevrolet plant and a major part, of the home building projects in ths Detroit area have been halted as a result of a dispute between the American Federation of Labor’s plasterers and lathers unions and the Master Plastering Contractors’ ■ Association. Both the motor and building industries are limping along as it is. There are some reports that motor plants may shut down extensively this summer in which event the burden of employment and production would fall more heavily on residential building. But If labor disputes, and. strikes threaten, the promise of reasonably good’" building operations offered as a result of FHA activities aasjf be negatived and promoters sf
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.