Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 7, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
HOW THEY STAN
Since Jan. 1 ,	5
increased Carnlngs:
Industrials........
Rails .............
Utilities .........
Decreased Earnings:
Industrials........
Rails .............
Utilities .........
Additions
Yesterday
4
9
1
9
5
2
HIGH AND LOW PRICES—
Thursday on the New York change, three stocks made new highs and six stocks made new
New Highs—
Richfield OU. .
New Lows—
Mitt st Ry . .
Mead Cp pf
Stock Ex-
lows, for years 1937-'38.
Morris a Esses Pitt Ck A Ir
Woodward Iron
Seat'd Atr L. Aor PAM pr pf
By Robert Laffan
Operations for the rise gathered support from several directions yesterday. Evidence that the government was putting the weight of its lending facilities behind the railroad industry helped considerably and removed much of the uncertainty that has been overhanging that section of the market. As a consequence railroad stocks and bonds jumped into the rallying movement that has been carried along recently almost entirely on the strength of efforts by the Industrial division. A strong close pushed the Dow-Jones industrial averages up 4.31 points, rails 1.41 points and utilities 0.50 points.
Utilities received a little help in the disclosure that the independent offices appropriations bill, in which arc listed sums for conducting many of the regular and some of the emergency functions of the government for the coming fiscal year, carried a fairly sizeable reduction in the amount allotted to the Tennessee Valley Authority. In making this reduction the House Appropriations Committee gave a rather pointed indication of lack of sympathy for activities of that agency, for nowhere else in the entire appropriations measure was there such a reduction.
Strength in commodity markets, notably In grains, also gave the share market its blessing and under the influence of this happy combination of circumstances some notable price advances were recorded. Allied Chemical and du Font jumped more than 5 points and Chrysler and Westinghouse Electric nearly did as well. Many of the low priced issues moved up 2 points or more and percentagewise their gains were more notable than those of the leaders. The movement broadened and took on additional strength in the late dealings after a morning spent in cautiously feeling out offerings.
RFC LENDING—
Pressure on rail securities was lifted by the overnight RFC decision to grant the B. & O. loan of $8,223,000. This development was a tonic to the whole market. It helped to keep alive the mildly inflationary sentiment that has been developing in financial quarters. The RFC is pretty much an established agency now and it Is possible to become used to such things as government loans where private lending is lacking, but it hardly can be forgotten that at its inception the RFC was the origin of inflation, for government spending followed government lending and it was a natural development to protect government loans. It might be far fetched to say that an $8,000,000 loan to a weak railroad is in itself “inflation”, but following official estimates that all hope of budget balancing for the next year is removed and that the deficit may even be widened against a year ago, If more relief and armament expenditures are approved, it is at least correct to say the trend is inflationary.
It must be remembered that not many months ago the government threatened to close the RFC to new lending. Official talk of bringing the budget nearer to a balanced condition, moreover, had a ring of seriousness to it, particularly when that talk was accompanied by reductions in relief expenditures _ trend of things, therefore, not the tails, that the Street is watching.
It is the isolated de-
the govcrn-standard of
BUILDING AND WAGES—
Along with the evidence that ment is determined to maintain its living and to aim for a larger national income,
we have evidence that some of the inflationary excesses of last spring are being corrected. Wage rates in the building trade are being gradually deflated. In many parts of the cour-try, more particularly outside the big cities where organized labor is strong, there are definite indications that labor is willing to forget its excessively high hourly wage demands of last year and work for much less Thus far work in substantial volume is lacking, but the trend suggests that builders may shortly be
attracted to engage in building operations again. Between the two developments, the government's determination not to decrease spending materially and labor's willingness to be more 'reasonable, there may be a meeting ground where building activity can be resumed. Some owners of private capital are apt to reason that the government has turned its back on long term deflation, or at least is making. an effort to resist it. should it develop, and meanwhile labor conditions are more promising.
Another favorable straw for the building industry is the announcement that Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. plans to Invest $100,000,000 in low rental housing. Getting directly into the low rental housing construction field is a new departure for the life insurance company and the way will have to be paved by legislation in New York State which will be introduced promptly.
MOTORS—
Motor shares, gards in rallying showed greater an advance. —
after being conspicuous lagmovements in recent months, willingness to participate in The remarks of W. S.^Knudsen, president of General Motors Corp., before the Senate Committee on Unemployment, were Interpreted bullishly. While » his comments on unemployment and the conditions which had led to plant curtailment were regarded as serious, these facts had been amply discounted in the market decline in motor shares, and more attention was given to the estimate of 1937 profits, which indicated that the balance for the common in the final quarter was equivalent to better than $1 a share, based upon the difference between the nine months’ and the full year’s profit. Of course, full effects of the business decline did not fall in that quarter, and the real curtailment in production and shipments began with the year end, which indicates that the current quarter may be less impressive. However, Mr. Knudsen’s detailed statement on sales figures for ten-day periods suggested that the worst of the automotive decline may have come in the second period in December, when sales of new and used cars dropped to 45% of the 1936 level. Used car sales in the past week, he said, were 70% of the like period a year ago. These two figures are not comparable, because the first set of figures includes new car sales, while the latter represents merely used car sales. However, the lag in new car sales currently, and the working off of used car stocks, should pave the way for resumption in new car buying. Dealers concentrating on pushing used car weather conditions for this time of been rather favorable.
are now sales, and year have
OILS—	.
Brokers were encouraged to note the improved market performance of the oil group. Gasoline statistics have not been as favorable as they might be and there have been some additions to stocks which have produced more cautious sentiment toward oils. However, the crude situation is still regarded as satisfactory and if general business conditions show improvement over the ncx* several months, or Into spring, the oil group is bound to return to favor for it has its attractions in a stock market where there is a mildly inflationary sentiment running.
, V. S. SMELTING—
| Just what effect the change in the domestic I price of silver from 77.57 cents an ounce to 64.64 cents an ounce will have upon earnings of U. S. Smelting, Refining and Mining Co., one of the larger domestic producers of silver, cannot be accurately determined but it is evident ' that it could be quite substantial. Applying the decrease to 1936 production, which is understood to have been exceeded last year by a fair margin, the net drop in value of U. S. Smelting’s silver production would have.been about $2,500,000. Considering that 1936 earnings amounted to $5,455,277 it is evident that the i price difference is important.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.