Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 10, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 19
BOW THEY STAND—
Increased Earnings:
Industrials
Kails .	.....
Utilities ......
Decreased learnings *
Industrials .......
Ralls . .
utilities	7
Stncb Jan. 1 . 8
Additions
Saturday
12
10
s
HIGH AND LOW BRICES—
Saturday on the New York three stocks made new highs ___ „
made new lows for years 1937-’38. New Highs—
NewtX^1' R°“	Wo~
Mitt St It) 2pl N'ortSw Tel .. Tri I
2
1
1
Stock	_ w
and three stocks
Exchange,
By Robert Laffan
1 he new year started more auspiciously than the old one closed, and Saturday’s final prices found the Doiv-Toncs industrial average above the 130-Icvel where recent attempts to gain admittance had been repulsed. A moderatelv rising volume of trading accompanied this upturn and, more important, there was somewhat greater breadth to the movement.	.
Prices were easily influenced, however, b'v slight shifts in supply and demand and traders were wary about acquiring the doubtful distinction of being responsible for putting shares to new highs without reasonable assurance that investment demand would follow-through on the strength. The market drew its support in the first place from the absence of offerings and it was not certain that this necessarily implied ability to sustain a higher price level. Inability of the rails to make progress and steady pressure on sections of the rail bond market up to the time the RFC approved the B. & O. Ioan threatened an early end to the strength in industrials. But following approval of that loan there was a release of tension that resulted in a spontaneous burst ot strength on Thursday. This pace was not sustained Friday, but renewed strength appeared m Saturday’s session.
The week opened with President Roosevelt's message to Congress and this proved much milder in tone so far as it concerned big business than the remarks of his lieutenants who closed the old year with broadside attacks. Apparently this message had been awaited fearfully despite advance intimations from Bernard Kilgore of the Dow-Jones Washington Bureau that there probably was less to fear on this score from the President.
In any event the President's message also had the effect of releasing tension, with consequent benefit to the markets, securities and commodities- Parts of the speech and the later budget message were regarded as mildly inflationary and this was the foreign as well as the domestic reaction, judging from cables from abroad. Some vigorous buying came into commodity markets, with foreign demand quite a factor.
• * •
BUDGETARY INFLATION—
The budget message closed the door to any prospect of a balance in the next.fiscal yean and : possibly it opened the door to a larger deficit. Despite an authorized reduction in expenditures of $539,000,000, the deficit on the basis of the figures given will be only $139,000,000 less than in the current fiscal year. A little increase in expenditures for armaments or relief, both mentioned officially as a possibility, would swallow that economy.
A creeping budgetary inflation can be taken for granted but after that fact is established there remains an infinitely complex problem for the investor. The main thing is how beneficial will it be to corporate profits, or will it be destructive to profits? Even assuming the latter, should tangible property or equities be considered preferable to cash regardless of earnings prospects? The situation does not resolve an ““t-an-out inflation such as that, or 1933 and 1934, when raising the price of gold together with a natural business rebound from an unprecedented depression pointed the way clearly. Today the investor, like Hamlet, pauses undecided over what is to be or not to be.
* * *
SHORT TERM POSSIBILITIES_________
For the short term the situation probably can be much more simply stated. Washington economists and advisers to the Administration believe we are scraping bottom and an upturn should be in progress by the spring. Some business leaders share this view and one of them declared last week to the Senate committee investigating unemployment that inventories in f“^To k " ,ndustrles wouM be down to normal daya i" manufacturing industries in 60 to 90 days. $omc repurchasing obviously be	and in fact has already been
noted. Moreover, we have it on the hichest week° thatfr°rt ^re3idcnt’8 message last ~ eeR*_that	private cooperative endeavor
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
fails to provide work tor willing hands and relief for the unfortunate, those suffering hard-snip from no fault of their own have a riE'ht to call upon the government for aid; and a government worthy ot its name must make fitting response."	•
ls c*ear then that if a spontaneous revival fails to materialize in 60 to 90 days the government can be expected to bring its fun influence to bear to force it. Ours is a pressure form of government ano the biggest and most concentrated pressure today is from the large ranks oi the unemployed.
* • •
GOVERNMENT CREDIT________
Still, from a strictly economic viewpoint tn. budgetary Implications cannot be so lightly dismissed and the long term Investor must see 5„““d p°llcy of expenditure and taxation. All things finally come back to the budget to the government's credit. The Investor, public officials and the unemployed will have to give it their attention regardless of how desirous an may be of ignoring the unpleasant fact. It keeps intruding into the pleasant picture of a prosperity that can be conjured up out ot thin air, or more accurately, off printed pieces of paper. Should business improve on its own the outlook would be much more bullish but otherwise the budget will become an issue of first importance.
Chronic deficits in France have not produced prosperity and even successive currency devaluations have gradually lost their effectiveness. True enough, this is not France and there may still be great potency in devaluation steps before £hc effectiveness wears off but the fact remains that in strict market parlance, deficits are not bullish.	’
MARKET—
Before the long term bullish or bearish points resolve themselves, however, there Bhould be opportunity to see which way the wind is blowing. The natural recuperative powers of the country must be given a chance to assert themselves. Certain lines of industry have already recovered slightly from the low point. A cessation of liquidation In commodities and stocks has lately given way to slightly bolder buying activities and it will be important to see how the advance “takes.” Slow, halting steps upward probably would be more indicative of sound recovery than a speculative spree that might fail to hold.