Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 30, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
The upswing was resumed with renewed vigor in 'Wednesday’s session, the reactionary tendencies of the two preceding days having set the stage for another thrust on the upside. Wall Street was amazed at the ease with which the market pushed through earlier resistance levels and soared to new peaks. Industrials topped their January highs and finished at 135.87 for a gain of 5.49 points. Rails gains 1.61 points to 26.18 and utilities gained 0.61 points to 21.21. Volume of trading at better than 2,600.000 shares set a new peak tor the current upturn.
Some of the advances assumed sensational proportions. Chemicals had an especially thin market with buyers compelled to reach, anywhere from a half dozen to a dozen points for stock. Dow Chemical had the biggest jump in price but du Font was not far behind with a 7 point uprush. Westinghouse Electric, Johns Manville, Chrysler, Bethlehem Steel, U. S. Steel and International Harvester were up from close to 4 to more than 6 points.
The tape fell behind floor transactions several times. Demand broadened as the session progressed, with movies, radio, liquor, merchandising and miscellaneous issues moving forward on a large turnover.
Commodities gave a mixed performance, being influenced to some extent by softness in agricultural staples and an easier tone abroad. Bonds moved higher with stocks, the specula
tive railroad section coming in for special attention.
* •
CAST IRON’ FIFE— .
There has been some bullish talk In * the Street on the cast iron pipe companies, particularly U. S. Pipe A Foundry, but as nearly as can be learned this is based more on the market action than on anything tangible relating to the industry. Interests close to the company are quite puzzled both aS to business and market prospects. Nothing has occurred so far to justify any wild bullishness, but the market in its characteristic fashion may well be attempting to discount something not visible to the naked eye. Insiders, therefore, are merely shrugging their shoulders and are waiting to cross the door to which currently there is no key.
UTEUTIES—
If there were a little more optimism regarding the political outlook, some market followers would expect to see electric power shares assume leadership on the rise. It is estimated that the electric and combination electric and com-mination gas and electric companies will show a decline in profits of from 12% to 15% for the second quarter as against a year ago. This is a somewhat greater rate of decline than was disclosed in the first quarter, but it is materially less than the drop that will be shown by the average industrial corporation.
In a market where there Is an abundance of money that is generally waiting to be employed at a low interest return, the dividend yield on many utility common stocks still looks 'generous. The answer, of course, is that the political attitude toward utilities is still a restraining influence. A clean sweep for conservatism in the forthcoming elections undoubtedly would help utilities to get in line with prevailing yields elsewhere, but apparently the market is not yet ready to look too far ahead, and is staging a reaction away from the extreme pessimism in business and financial circles, leaving the political situation for later appraisal.
MUTUAL INVESTING COMPANIES—
Several of the larger mutual investing companies are reported to have been buying substantial quantities of stock recently. These companies are constantly making additional offerings of their own shares to the public, and
HOW THEY STAND—
	Since	.Additions
Increased Earnings:	.	June X	yesterday
Industrials 			.. . . 21	2
Rails 			....	5	
Utilities	......	....	34	i
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 			.. . . 61 -	1
Rails _			. _ _	....	67	1
Utilities 		....	52	2
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
Wednesday, on the New York Stock Exchange, 153 stocks made new highs and" one stock made a new low for 1938.	*
New Highs—
AM»Ct Lafe. . a<1w JExpreaa Air ttedneuoo AiptiB Ft Cena Amenta* . . . Am BahIc Net* Am Hk Ndk M Am Cab .... Am MncbAFdy Am /fcl S pf p*l e pt Am Hou Mill pf Am itatiff . .. Am Toto pf. . . Am Woolen. .. Am Woolen pf Armit’c Cork. Arnold Coasts Auoe Dry Gd* AU Refining.. Atiaa Ctp pi Atlas Powder. Barber Aspb.. Best t Oc ... Bod Ami A. . . Bon Ami B. . Bo rx- Waner Bristol Myers Bncyraa Erie. Kurt. Mills. . ... Basil T Bl pf et.
ButleriSr pt Byers, A M. . Byers, A M pf Caes J I of Cent HR of NJ Cto Pneo Toe* Chi Pn T cvpl City Stores .. Cfuett P’body. Coloni Carbon. Cons E N Y pf Cons Film pf. Cont Baidas A Cont Bakins pf Cont Cao . Cont iKuuranea Crane Co. .. Crane Co ev pf.
Cutler Hum*? Dow Chem....
New Low—
Coil a Aik pf
Eastman KodL Fed Lt A Thm Fed USTl pl. Fed MBSm Fedemtoo o b Fed D Btr* pd Fidelity Pbsa. Fllntkotto .... Stood Maeh pt. Gaylord Coat Gen Am Hives Geo Am Trant Geo Food* .. Gen Out Ade. Gen Outdoor A. Oeo By Bls pf Geo Refract. . Glmbei Brea. Goodyear pf Gotham 8 B pl Greyhound Greyhound pf. Harb Walker.. Holland FUrn. Hudson Bay M. Inland Steak. Int PapAPw pf Int Tel A TM. Johns- Maori U* Kalamasoo Stv Klmb’ly dark Lee Rub A Tire Letalsb Pt Cem Lerner Store*..
Lis* A My pf. Lone Star Cem.
Macy Co ... &Ianhat Btxlrt. Marshall Field Maronite Corp McCrory Btr*. Mln Hon Res Minn Moline pf Mona Cbem Mon(s*y Ward Nat Bd A Sbr.
Nat Cash Ra* Nat Gypsnm.
Nat Steel . NFC omnibus Otis Elev pf. ..
Owens Hl Gtaa* arm* ....
Panb Patent
ParaMne .	. .
Penlek a 1*4. Penney. J. O. -Penn-Dlx pf A People* Gas Phil Morris pf. Pitt Bti pf. Plymouth Ok Pure O B% pf Purity Bake. . Radio ev *pf. Real Silk H Pl St Joseph LA. Scott Paper.
Sears ttoeboe> Shattuck F * Shell On OU m Sloe* Sbefllefd Sou Cal Edison Spaidln* Broe. Sperry Corp. Splesel tn* pl Square D Soth’l’d Papes Swift lot’l.... Telautorraob Texas Golf 8*J Tide W A pi Timken Rollo 20 Gentry Fox 20 Cent Fox pf Un Ba* a P .
Colon Carbide Cult Aire Corp TJnJt OrtxiD. . Unit Paperb’d.
■J 8 Gypsum D B Leather A 8 8 ripe a F. U 8 Robber. . "Jolt Store* pf Vulcan Detin. WfUsrecn of wv Warren F & F Wesson OU o* West Cn Tel. Woolworth ... Yale a Towne
leading companies apparently had accumulated a substantial cash reserve through these flotations. Such a program calls for reinvestment of the additional capital in the market to preserve a strong earnings asset position behind the trust shares.
Other trusts that are not of the mutual type also had acquired a more substantial cash reserve than normal, anticipating that the stock
market might seek new lows before discounting a business upturn. It-will be interesting, therefore, to contrast the liquidating value of the various trust or investment companies at the mid-year after the hectic market fluctuations of the past six months and in view of the in and out tactics employed by some of these units. In a general way it is expected that many such companies founa it increasingly difficult to keep their liquidating value abreast of the performance of the Dow-Jones averages.
• • •
INFLATION AND TAXES---------
Just about the time the inflationists are rnairing up their minds that the market is going up in anticipation of greater deficit spending by the government, President Roosevelt announces that the Administration is studying a plan for broadening the income tax base along the lines suggested by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Eccles.
Such a step would be hailed as immensely constructive by those in Wall Street who favor a return to orthodoxy in finance. It has long been felt that no effort to discuss stabilization of currencies could amount to much until the Administration and some of the foreign countries make a move to balance budgets, for accumulating deficits are the root of all monetary instability. The idea of liquidating part of the $20,000,000,000 in public debt acquired since 1933 seems a little out of reach at the moment, but an effort could be made to balance current income with outgo. However, it Is feared in some quarters that President Roosevelt also would return to some of his unorthodox taxing policies as part of the tax reform program. He implied as much in failing to sign the last tax measure.
* to to
BRITISH MARKET—
The London stock market has not been following our upturn with the same degree of enthusiasm as we are exhibiting here. It is also noted that the British index of commodity prices has been behaving sluggishly and some of our commodities have been, lagging, particularly the grains. There is not much concern on this account at the moment because the performance abroad has been reasonably good and other Indices domestically have been pointing upward with the market. The bond market, rail shares and sensitive commodities, such as steel scrap, lead and zinc, have been pointing higher.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.