Purely Gossip: Purely Gossip
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 14, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 17
Besides a satisfactory budget of business news. Wall Street was much impressed by the possibility of the government and utility industry ’‘getting together”, and undoubtedly some of the impetus for the buoyant stock market yesterday was obtained from this. A new high for the industrial average for the year, with a large volume of trading, and substantial advances in the rails and utilities testified to the breadth of the market.
Public buying, with many of those who had thus far taken little or no position in the mar- -ket.in the current advance getting aboard, con-’tributed to the volume. Brokers said that there was considerable demand from investment trusts and institutional buying in both bonds and stocks.
Profit taking was going forward in some groups with little affect on prices. There was also considerable switching, with floor traders taking a hand in one group after Another as activity and interest progressed. Street thought that tbe increase in brokers’ loans of but 516.000 000 last week attested to the large amount of cash buying.
Heard on the Street—
Bethlehem Steel and V. S Steel ran neck and neck at 65. with most of the activity in the latter • • • Throughout yesterday’s session large blocks of stock were constantly changing hands and this, too, in fairly high priced issues • • • Sloss Sheffield was up IS points m two sessions which is all to the good for Allied Chemical’s portfolio 'which includes a controlling interest in Sloss • • * Government-utility conference in respect to a billion dollar expansion progxarn accounted for some buying in the electrical equipment shares * * • Brokers reported some switching from motor shares into dui1 ding-equipment issues although the former hardly showed any effects of the selling * * * Oils were recovering from the selling -which efew out of the weaker price structure of crude and brokers reported that the buying had been of better calibre than the selling in recent markets * • • More and more, the public is coming into the market these days, but it is notable that a large-percentage of the buying is for casn rather than on margin as waa the case in previous bulls markets.
* • •
September SO Reports—
Wall Street is finding the third quarterly reports in most cases what had been antiipated in regard to reduced earnings compared with last year, but there are strong expectations that the fourth quarter will be considerably improved for many companies and predictions to this end are forthcoming. At the same time, there are many in the Street who are discussing the profits factor compared with high costs and this centers around tbe steel industry where prices have been sharply* clipped and wages are still unchanged.
* • •
Copper—	.
•With higher prices forscopper in London yes-Pleaec Turn to Page Fourteen
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
-	■■ Continued from Page Seventeen---------
terday. Street was not surprised with another advance in the domestic pnce which is now 11 cents a pound. Demand is still well sustained and while increased production is getting- under way both here and abroad, the statistical position continues to favor higher prices and there are some in the trade who believe that domestic prices will work higher before they are stabilized. Some factors in the trade point to the fact that prices can still be regarded as low particularly in view of the demand and the further inroads into stocks.
* • •
A Big Shopping Day—
Although Wednesday's fine weather brought out the largest crowd in shopping districts of the Metropolitan area seen since the Christmas holidays, business was reported spotty by some retailers because of the unseasonably high temperatures which affected the sale of fall and winter goods which usually move well on Columbus Day. As a general rule however. retailers reported many departments well up to last year’s volume of sales for the big day while a few specialty stores said that their business totals topped last year's returns slightly.
• • •
A Shorter Ust of Shorts—
Street was not surprised by the sharp contraction in the short position totals and, of course, this suggests that the reserve technical strength of the market had been reduced considerably by the recent advance. Some of the day-to-day traders have been taking short positions in recent markets although as often as not these are closed out daily.
—Thk broad Street Gossxp
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.