Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 1, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 13
Abreast of
Market Diary
Call cnooeyi renewal .....
Time money. 90 days ......
Acceptance*. 90 day* .....
Commercial paper .........
France, cables ...........
Steriinr, eablee .........
New Fork bank rate .......
Reserve System ratio .....
Copper, domestic .........
Lead, New York ...........
Stiver. Nev* York .... ..
Steel ecrap (Pitta. No. 1). • Zinc, East Nt. Loots .....
Future*:
Coffee, Rio, December ... Com. December ............
Cotton, December .........
Hide*, old, December .....
Oat*. December ...........
Rubber. December .........
Silk, raw. old, December.. Sugar, raw, No. S March. Tin, Standard, December.. Wheat, December ..........
Wool tops, December ......
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Friday’s stock market continued to rise on the wave of enthusiasm and relief over the outcome of the European situation. Eager buyers were ready to absorb offerings during all periods of hesitancy and many stocks were carried forward to the neighborhood of their best levels for the vear. The Dow-Jones industrial average succeeded for the first time in months in pushing through a previous rally top, ycst®’'" dav sweeping substantially through the 140 level and well over the September 21 high.
The London stock market enjoyed a brilliant rally and many issues were carried above the pre-crisis Levels. Sterling continued to improve against the dollar. Commodities were generally flrm. Grains weakened further as buyers on the recent war threat continued to liquidate holdings.
Demand for our shares was vigorous from the opening. Sizable blocks of leading issues were turned over in the initial dealings. The motors and steels backed away slightly from the highs but found support reasonably close to early peaks. Steel common, however, again found buyers In late dealings and moved up to around its best levels of the day. Chemicals, merchandising issues and rubbers were pronounced favorites. Utilities were bought in large quantities and enjoyed their best advance since mid-summer.
The bond market was generally strong.
...
UTILITIES—
Utility stocks were driven forward yesterday at almost twice the pace of rails and industrials, based on the Dow-Jones averages. By the start of the fourth hour they were up 5.20% on the day against 2.88% for rails and 2.83% for industrials. This justified the faith of those who have contended that, speculatively, the position of utilities is much more interesting inan that of any other group. For the utilities, at their recent lows, were down to 17.25. That lew compares with a 1532 bottom of 16.53 and a 1935 low—their extreme bear market dip—of 14.46. In other words, the utilities have been bouncing around an historic triple low, near the most depressed levels of the past six years. In many investment quarters, utilities are without appeal, but to one primarily interested in charts this in no way lessens their intriguing possibilities. As a matter of fact, utilities could not be expected to be found selling near historic lows if they commanded much respect among investors. The chartists' contention is that the news follows the market and sometime, assuming some of the best hopes are realized, the explanation for improvement will always come along. Possibly it will be a changed attitude in Congress regarding government competition.
v r- ♦
STEEL WAGES AND ’RICES—
The matter of steel wages and prices, which
the Market
	-Friday ■	■	■»
1M8	1837
1%	1%
	i%%
%%®1%	1%
.0270%	.0343%
4.83*6	4.93V£
1% 82.6%	80.^
10% 6.10	18 6.00
4!%	44%
	17%®18
4.96	6.50
4.43	8.31
8.00	63Mj 8.28
11.17	14.88
	80%
	17.73
i.7:i	
2.02	2.28
44.66	AA.25
63%	107%
81.1	102.6
Friday, on the New York Stock Exchange, nine stocks made new highs and one stock made a new low for the year 1938.
HOW THEY STAND-
	Since	Additions
increased Earnings:	Sept. 1	yesterday
Industrials 			 6	1
Rails 			 10	1
Utilities ,	....		 24	3
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 			 112	4
Rails				 66	1
Utilities 			 61	-	7
*	* •	
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
New Highs—			
Abbott LaD. .	Ingersoll R nl	Scott	Paper.
Cont Can pl. •	Lee Rub & Tir»	Texas	Gulf 8W
Cn« F » go pf.	Pb Morris.	V »	Gypsum.
New Low—
rir.111	....
has been a source of much discussion in Wall Street over recent months, may be headed toward clarification judging from the remarks ot Henry A. Roemer, president ot Pittsburgh Steel Co. The latter declared yesterday that unless there are compensating advances in the price ot steel products, wages ot steel workers cannot be maintained at present high levels.
It is known that there has been quite a good deal ot price cutting in the steel industry lately despite the surface appearance of stability. However, it probably would be a difficult matter to institute a wage reduction in a period of expanding business volume, so that for the present it would seem that firmer prices rather than a wage cut loom as the most likely of the two developments. It all depends, however, upon whether or not the market can stand it. One company’s efforts to build up volume regardless ot price can keep the price situation unsettled despite the desire of a majority in the industry to maintain firm quotations. But if firmer prices are not forthcoming shortly or if the expansion in the steel business fails to develop satisfactorily over the weeks ahead, the only alternative left will be to reduce wages. In any event, one of these developments must appear shortly.
* * *
NICKEL PLATE—
Decision of Nickel Plate’s executive committee to defer Interest payment on the refunding mortgage 5%% series A bonds failed to check enthusiasm for other carrier issues. The Nickel Plate bonds broke sharply, but this was to be expected for there has been a good deal of bullish speculation in these issues recently on the assumption that the management will not allow the road to go through reorganization despite recent threats to that effect. Confidence on this point was somewhat shaken by yesterday’s development.
Earnings of the railroad Industry generally have been showing a definite uspwing and car loadings for the latest week were considered reasonably good though not quite up to seasonal expectations.
• * •
HEAVY INDUSTRY—
With the war threat dissolving, the improvement in sentiment among investment bankers assumes considerable importance. Financing has been paralyzed over recent weeks, but that condition will be rapidly corrected, for it is estimated that there is fully 5400,000,000 in financing on the way over tbe next few weeks. Much of this is refunding, but the stage should be set for issues of new capital if the current rising tide of confidence can be sustained.
From a market standpoint, the need for
heavy industry expansion is well recognized. Thus far, aside from residential building, there has been little evidence of private construction undertakings. Steel stocks and coppers have been locked in a trading range for months. However, the Street i3 well aware that steels and coppers generally are not among the leaders in a stock market advance and that they usually come to the front only when the recovery has advanced to the point where Industry is ready to extend or improve its plant facilities, s *	«
GLASS MAKERS BUSY—
Manufacturers of window glass are in the midst of their rush season and their volume has been augmented substantially by demands tor reconstruction work In New England. With these orders for prompt delivery and the automotive and residential building industries drawing upon supplies, the prospects are that earnings of glass manufacturers will be somewhat better than anticipated. The building industry's needs will taper off as winter weather develops, but meanwhile it is hoped that the automobile companies’ will continue to expand. From current reports, it appears that motor companies are experiencing particularly good orders from dealers and that demand has been unaffected by the recently disturbing European situation.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.