Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 24, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Alarket Diary
Tttcrtln*.	.. ........
Xrvr Tark bank t»to ...... Jteneiwe Sjratem ratio .«...
Copper, domestic ........ Eead, New fork.........
BtTver. New York ......... Steel scrap (Fitts. No. 1).. Zine. East St. Loaia ......
tifiuea:
Coffee. CMo. December .. • Cora, December .........
Cotten. December ........ Hides, old. December......
Oats. December ........
Rubber. December .........
Slllc. raw. old. December.. Savor, raw. No. 3. March. Tin. Standard. December . Wheat, December...........
Wool tops. December ......
	-Friday	—
xess	1937
xst	14b
lw*	
	
	1*
	•0343Mt 4.90
1% 33.5	
io*.	14
A.10	6.M
	444i.
	is^eis IM
4.30	6.39
	6344 6.31
10.03	10.30
304*	31
16.14	13.36
1.6944	1.69
3.03	3.30
43.40	07.30
	lOSMt
79.6	103.3
	Since	Additions
Increased Earning*:	Sept. 1	yesterday
Industrials 	....	....	3	
Raila 		«...	9	
Utilities 		.... 16	5
Decreased Earnings: Industrials 		. . . .	98	5
Rails 			....	54	1
Utilities 		.... 86	2
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Renewed uneasiness over possible foreign Complications depressed the stock market Friday. The trend was easier at the opening and selling pressure increased as the ChamberlainHitler negotiations were resumed. Rumors of disagreements over details produced a heavy atmosphere. There were also reports of border fighting in Czechoslovakia, later denied, which did not add to the peace of mind of the financial community.
American stocks were weaker in London before trading opened here. Foreign exchanges and foreign government bonds also were easier. The London Financial Times average of British Industrial shares sagged 1.3 points and rails ©ff 0.2, or closer to their lows for the year.
Soviet Russia’s notification to Poland that •he would denounce the Russian-Polish nonaggression treaty without further warning if Polish troops moved into Czechoslovakia added to the complications.
While the local stock market retreated in an orderly fashion there was no disposition to rally. Leading issues such as Johns Manville, Chrysler, Westinghouse Electric, Union Pacific, American Telephone and American Smelting lost from more than 2 to nearly 4 points on the day. Coppers lost their recent strength and sagged back toward the lower range that they have occupied during the past week. Mail order issues, farm equipments, steels and oils suffered.
Rail freight loadings for last week, reported during the day, came up to expectations at 660.142 cars, the highest since November 13, 1937. Rails sagged in the general downtrend, however. The Dow-J ones rail average lost almost a point, but finished above last week’s low level. Industrials were off more than three points .and utilities more than a half point.
The bond market was easier. Commodities were irregular, grains again gaining.
less of whether the expenditures are made by government or by private individuals and corporations. However, this is an obtuse way of approving the old law that bad money drives good money from circulation and it by no means clarifies the outlook. What is needed, from every standpoint, is the return to good money.
* • •
BUDGETS AND REALISM—•'
On the record, the liberal who thinks it is utterly impracticable to consider a return to orthodox financing at a time like this has no great case to make out for his own accomplishments. The velocity of money, or the rate at which demand deposits are turned over, fell to a record low last month. In France, where loose fiscal policies have been followed to a greater extreme than here, the wobbly franc, strikes and trade stagnation have proceeded in an endless circle. The war scare may serve as an excuse for recent budget increases in France, but most of the current manifestations were present before the war situation reached an acute phase.
This example would seem to suggest that It is the liberal with loose financial ideas who Is on the defensive and upon him must fall the burden of explaining an abundance of money and credit, while chronic unsatisfactory business conditions and unemployment continue. In this country there is no contention that a foreign country may at any moment attack us— thereby requiring an open-end budget to prepare for defense—as an excuse for deficit spending. On the contrary, the course is being pursued purely on economic and social considerations, and notwithstanding the record to date, the record of contemporary countries that have tried it, or the records of history itself.
i
BANK LOANS—
Brokers’ loans of New York City member banks are almost back to the level of last June, Indicating how small the speculative incentive is at the moment. The pronounced rise in stock prices started on June 18 and local member banks for the week ending June 22 reported a total of $515,000,000 in brokers* loans outstanding. For the week ended September 21 loans dropped $60,000,000, more than wiping out the $52,000,000 increase of the week before, when dealers m government securities were borrowing to finance subscriptions to new issues. The total now is down to $525,000,000, or less than half the amount outstanding a year ago and not very substantially above the extreme low point of the 1932 depression, when $331,000,000 brokers* loans were outstanding.
Commercial loans also are languishing despite the improvement in business since midsummer and customary seasonal tendency for them to rise at this time. There was a small Increase in August, but this has been followed by a steady fall since then.
This limited use of bank credit is a strong point in one sense in that it indicates there is little evidence of overspeculation. However, it is also evidence of a clouded or unsatisfactory business outlook. At least, so far as business loans are concerned, there should be normally every reason to expect expansion. Despite the prevalence of hugh bank reserves, which exert pressure on banks to find borrowers, there seems to be little disposition on the part of the latter to use credit facilities.
CREDIT AND EARNINGS—
The Administration in its many drives to promote easier money and sponsor private credit expansion has been overlooking one important point, namely, encouraging large corporate profits. The situation is illustrated in the case of the airlines companies which are reported to be having difficulty obtaining operating capital. Here is an industry that is young and growing yet with a few exceptions the airlines companies are reported to be operating “in the red,” and cannot obtain operating funds. The Civil Aeronautics Authority is considering a proposal to order increased airmail compensation in order to put the industry on a sound financial basis.
What applies here is true of all industry. It is curious to note the official drive against monopoly and profits and at the same time repeated warnings and condemnation against banks for not lending money. For the truth Is that bank credit expands when profits expand and to expect anything else la to fly in the face of facts. It would be consistent as part of the drive to expand bank credit and bring about greater employment to encourage larger and larger profits for industry rather than to attempt to reduce profits and profit margins.
To continue the present course is to acquire more and more federal deficits and to require more federal spending to overcome the lapse in private initiative. Even some business men at times make light of government spending, pointing out that business tends to improve regard-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.