Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Mar 26, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 13
HOW 1HE1! STAND—
By Robert Laffan
Discouraged by an accumulation of disappointments, the stock market yesterday suffered its worst setback in months, the industrial averages plunging out of the range occupied since last November to new now ground for the bear market. On the political front the Senate’s action in voting to abolish the office of Controller General, defeating the Byrd amendment to the reorganization bill which would have denied the Administration that opportunity, was discouraging. It indicated the Administration had the necessary strength to vote down the regular opposition coalition ot Repubicans and Democrats and it was a definite setback tor those who have allowed sentiment over poitical tendencies to rise a little in recent weeks.
With trade Indices still dragging, hopes dwindling that the Administration has any real solution to the railroad problem, European markets still sagging, the weight ot evidence was too strong to sustain stock prices any longer at their high ratio to indicated current earnings. Breaks of four to six points in leading issues were fairly numerous. The decline started slowly with irregularity at the opening. The pronounced heaviness in American Smelting and Westinghouse Electric carried a warning of trouble but the market was disposed to ignore it until later in the morning when prices gave way generally.
Successive waves of selling carried the list deeper into new low ground in the afternoon and the tape fell four minutes behind floor transactions. The close was at tbe lows for the day.
	Since*	Additions
Increased Earning.:	March 1	Yesterday
Industrials	.......	..a	814	10
Rafis		.... 20 •	’ <• .
Utilities 			... 60	
Decreased Earning.: * Industrials 		...»	...	239	10
Rafis 		...	45	1
Utilities 		...	48	- 2
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—	-
Please Turn to Page Ten
Commodities were steady but bonds again weakened badly.	.	.
...
WOMEN INVESTORS—
The Federal Licensing BUI Is not given much chance at success at this session of Congress, and should it pass, it probably would be in emasculated form. Some of the opposition testimony this week at the Senate judiciary subcommittee hearings came from a nationwide organization of women investors which previously fought the contemplated changes in the Supreme Court.
Catherine Curtis, national director of Women Investors In America, Inc., a non-profitmaking organization, told the sub-committee that women in every walk of life were alarmed over the welfare of their country and their own economic independence whether it is provided through their investments, their jobs or their husband's jobs. The contention by many leftwring New Dealers that wealth is highly concentrated and that those of moderate means cannot or do not save was subjected to special fire, with a quotation from the Statistical Abstract showing that there were 41,315,000 savings bank depositors tn 1935 with sn average account of $548.25, and that 65% of these depositors were women. Pointing out that income on these deposits is obtained by their reinvestment in business and industry. Miss Curtis referred to the great indirect ownership Interest which women have in business and industry. On behalf <of the women's group, it was recommended that the licensing bill, which would replace present property ownership with one of government permit granted and revoked at will by a federal commission, be set aside-and that Congress declare a moratorium on all legislation harmful to Industry.
FOREIGN. SELUNG—-	,
Fart of yesterday’s selling was attributed to, foreign sources, particularly Amsterdam, where the stock index went to a new low. That market was quite heavy and there were reports of settlement difficulties. Recent bad breaks in Atchison and Union Pacific, two of our rails that are strong favorites with Dutch investors; probably have added to the.embarraasment of the Amsterdam market.
The London market had a fairly steady tone in the early dealings, but softness developed before the session waa over. American issues were sold down from fractions to a point -in London before our opening.
• • •
TRADE NEWS—	..
The domestic business picture continued the main source of disappointment. Moderate improvement in the telegraph business and in steel orders have not served to bolster sentiment, for it is recognized that the gains are sub-seasonal and that present operating costs are crushing with the light amount of prevailing business. News from Pittsburgh yesterday indicated that Pittsburgh Plate Glass bad closed its plant at Henryetta, Okla., which means a loss of work for 500 men. Automobile production figures for the week revealed a moderate decline at a time of year when output should be pushing vigorously ahead. .
With some of tbe cotton textile plants planning to shut down unless orders spurt shortly, the indications point to a new high total in unemployment by the early summer.
« * *
FOREIGN COMPETITION—
-Complaints against our new trade agreements are rising steadily. Shoe manufacturers, the corn products refining industry and now glass makers have - joined in a chorus of complaints against allowing low priced foreign products to enter the American market.
Some of the manufacturers were ready to take this competition in stride at first, but as domestic business has receded without any noticeable reduction in wage levels, the competition of foreign-made products has been viewed with greater seriousness. Manufacturers of window glass, already troubled by an abnormally low demand, expect to see what little business they have left taken in a large part by European manufacturers.
• • •
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENTS—
Pronounced pressure on the electrical equipment stocks reflects recognition of the fact that Incoming business is not sufficient to justify maintenance of current operations. Both General Electric and Westinghouse Electric entered this year with larger orders than in the
preceding year, the heavy equipment divisions being particularly well situated. However, this has not prevented earning power from declining and with new orders Tunning sharply under last year's level, it is only a question of time until backlogs will have been depleted sufficiently to require greater curtailment in production than that witnessed thus far.
The depression in consumer incomes has already been reflected in reduced prices for household appliances and this means a lower profit margin from-, sales of these products.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.