Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 2, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
By robebt LlAFFatt ’
Foreign markets were stronger „	_
and the market here opened materially higher. Several of the severe breaks in leading issues ©n the day before had some of the earmarks of at least a temporary selling climax and the market’s rebound was regarded as technical in character. Steel comon was sharply higher at the start and though it retreated during the midday trading it came back again near the close to retain the best parr of the advance.
American Telephone was heavy for a while, showing nervousness while awaiting the FCC report. The stock, however, after touching a new low, moved with the rest of the market In the later trading. Rails were a-mnng the more Impressive features. Great Northern, Atlantic Coast Line, Atchison and Chesapeake & Ohio were particularly strong.
Gold mining shares worked against the main trend. Homestake and Dome showed minor bulges in the early dealings but ran into selling in the early afternoon and lost ground on *he day. Some of the best gains were scored by chemical issues. Union Carbide heading this movement with an upturn of 4’4 points. The electrical equipments, motors, coppers and oils were among the leaders in the upturn. The advance carried the Dow-Jones industrial average Up 4.07 points to 103.02. Rails were up 0.81 points at 19.81 and utilities gained 0.72 points to 15.86.
Bond prices, excepting the highly speculative issues, were not particularly responsive to the early rallying effort of the market but there was sufficient improvement in the late afternoon to pull the average price up a little. Commodities were generally firmer.
yesterday
a. little better
ing large foreign contracts are Off than that.
The stock market, as usual.	_	_
nosed the condition relating to the worth of machine tool shares. After last fall’s slump m stock markAt values there was a short-lived wave of bullishness in some of these machine tool companies because it was assumed that they had both the earnings background and sufficient unfilled orders to make them particularly attractive. But there has been little rally in these issues over the past six months, fo** they simply have marked time orders were largely used up and further with the general market.
correctly diag-
until unfilled then declined
GENERAL ELECTRIC— Salary cuts continue to spread, trie being the most recent of the
PAPER—
The low level of operations to which the paper industry generally descended in the first quarter of 1938 cut out a large part of the profits for the industry, but it appears likely that most companies eartied some money during the period. Indications are that some companies, at least, will show no less than they earned during the first three months of 1936, which was considerably less than they earned in the first quarter of 1937.
Hewsprint producers have been working this year against the douole disadvantage of huge stocks and reduced consumption. It had been estimated in some quarters that if consumption held up to last year’s level, it would take three months to work off stocks accumulated by publishers. With the drop in consumption, however, the more bearish prediction is made that it will be the end of June before stocks are worked down to normal. Meanwhile, however, there are no signs of price cutting in the dusrtry.
General Elec_________ ____ major manufacturers to reduce its expenses in this fashion. The company also is understood to have reduced its working force considerably. From here on. therefore, any slump in business should not have the terrific impact on net profits as has been the case recently. March business dropped 50% under a year ago against a 36% decline in the first two months of the year. Naturally, adjustments in costs were comparatively slow in getting under way for it it impossible to keep abreast of a decline in business such as that. Net profits consequently have fallen sharply but from here on, even assuming the worst from a business standpoint, the rate of decline in profits should be slower. Business hardly can drop from here as precipitously as it in recent months and there should be more opportunity to keep costs adjusted to the scale of new business.
in-
GOLD SHARES—	~
Gold shares continue to act sluggishly and were weaker yesterday at a time when the rest of the market was improving. Whatever other reasons may explain their action, chartists are satisfied simply with the fact that they made a double top in the winter rise and failed to penetrate the highs of late 1936. On this performance the chartists do not like the gold issues.
Threats of war in Europe also had some effect and added impetus to their downtrend. It is quite possible that there may have been some switching from the gold shares into some of the more depressed industrials, particularly the copper and mining issues.
STEELS—
Steel shares have been meeting some mand from speculators trying for a turn in intermediate trend. Now that the market generally is considerably under the levels prevailing at the start of March there is a little more willingness on the part of some of these traders to anticipate a little upturn in steel operations over the next 30 days or so. At the higher levels for steel shares there was little inclination to attempt such a move for it was recognized that the steel industry’s chances of attaining a profitable level of operations were mighty slim. Even as matters now stand the outlook is far from affording any real basis for optimism.
. However, there has been another upturn in steel production at some of the important centers. The Youngstown rate has moved up to 33% of capacity, the best achieved so far this year.
de-the
MACHINE TOOLS—
Conditions appear to have been reversing themselves in the machine tool industry. Whereas foreign orders held up unusually well through the latter part of last year and early this year, thereby cushioning the slump in domestic orders, now it is the domestic business that has improved a little, but not enough to overcome a decline in foreign buying, consequence, the strong backlog of business that sustained operations of chine tool markets long after new turned down has all but disappeared, makers have about 30 days’ business twice that amount in February.
©r two makers particularly fortunate in receiv-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
As a unfilled the ma-business Leading on hand
One