General Declines Occur in Leading Markets of World: Extensive ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 27, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
General Declines Occur in Leading Markets of World
Extensive Setbacks Develop in London and Amsterdam Prior to Hitler Speech
Talk Brings Wide Swings Here
World markets moved erratically yesterday as they sought to follow the swiftly changing news of the centra] European crisis. Sinking spells were followed by rallies, but al] major exchanges closed with sharp net losses on tbe day.
In New York, industrial stocks as measured by the Dow-Jones averages, lost 3.11 points to close at 129.91. Rails finished at 23.03, off 1 32. and utilities were 17.49, down 0.34. Volume reached 1.230.000 shares.
Near the close here, a burst of selling developed sufficient to wipe out a large part of a preceding rally. Motivating force for both rally and decline was the speech of Chancellor Hitler. The market moved up when tbe German leader's opening remarks were interpreted as conciliatory; then, sold off rapidly when later portions of the speech was construed as belligerent.
Foreign Bonds Under Pressure
Foreign bonds bore the brunt of the disturbed international situation. Australian issues lost up to 10 points and Italian bonds broke as much as 13%.
North American commodity markets were extremely irregular. Wheat finished strong with net gains at Chicago of % to !•% cents a bushels; sugar was firm but cotton lost 6 to 11 points. Other commodities generally were weak.
London and the Continental bourses operated throughout their trading day under the shadow of the then undelivered Hitler speech on the Czech crisis. Trading on the London market ramp to a virtual standstill, although prices were marked down drastically. The Financial Tunes' closing industrial average showed a loss of 4.4 points at 93.4; rails finished at 40.2, off 1.7.
Steadier Tone Develops In Paris
Paris opened with a wave of selling, but steadied at lower levels. Declines at Amsterdam were sufficiently broad to carry de Telegraaf's share average to a new 1938 low at 206.84 against £11.35-Saturday. However, many pivotal stocks closed above their day's lows and further improvement was shown In late unofficial trading.
Tbe Berlin Boerse opened weak, but rallied somewhat when it was announced that Prime Minister Chamberlain of Great Britain had sent another personal appeal to Chancellor Hitler. The Brussels Bourse declined sharply under the impact of a wave of liquidation.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.