Abreast of the Market
By ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 6, 1938;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 15
Since
Oct-1
1
2
4
9
3
6
BOW THEY STAND—
Increased Earnings:
Industrials ............
Rails ..................
Utilities ..............
Decreased Earnings:
- Industrials ...........
Ralls ..................
Utilities ..............
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Heavy buying orders swept stocks forward at an accelerated pace Wednesday. Industrial news took on a brighter complexion and there was some spirited buying in commodity markets. In addition, the overnight comments of President Roosevelt, particularly his suggestions for an industrial-labor-political truce, met a responsive note. The Dow-Jones industrial average was lifted more than four points to above 148, or through the August peak bv a decided margin. Rails did not quite do that well since they were further depressed from the mid-summer highs than the industrial section, but heavy buying of rail issues did much to close the gap. Utilities were moderately strong.
The turnover was what impressed Wall Street most. A total of 2.240.000 shares changed hands, the largest on the upside since last July. Several of the favorite rails and Industrials were purchased in thousand share units. In some of the special industrial issues, where markets are narrower, there was considerable difficulty arranging sales for offerings were quite restricted.
The chemical issues continued to blaze the trail into new high ground. Westinghouse Electric leaped more than 5 points and General Electric moved along at a good pace for that Issue, topping its mid-summer high. Chrysler moved up nearly 4 points to a new high.
Rails found buyers exceptionally eager. Louisville & Nashville jumped five points and Nickel Plate stocks and bonds soared on the overnight news that the executive committee had declared operative the plan to extend for three years the maturity date on the 6r/o unsecured notes.
• • •
COMMODITIES-------
The behavior of commodity markets tended to sustain the impression that business interests have been operating on low inventories recently. There was exceptional activity in hides, part y on tanners’ buying and partly on speculative dealings. Crude rubber was higher and the sugar market moved forward. The domestic copper price was advanced another cent and there were confident predictions in the trade tliat the metal would move still higher. Even
Additions yesterday *2
1
2
Z
the grains managed to improve. The behavior of the latter was considered particularly significant for it was there that most of the speculative war buying took place and it was feared for a time that these holdings would be dumped and thereby depress the market to new lows.
• * •
RAILS LEAD-----
Rails were the bright feature of yesterday’s market. Entering the final hour of trading the Dow-Jones rail average had percentage gains that were more than twice as great as that of the industrial average. Forecasts that the carloadings figures for the latest week, to be reported Friday, would be in excess of 700,000 cars provided an incentive for large scale buying of carrier issues. Great Northern, Southern Pacific, New York Central and Pennsylvania were turned over in large blocks
On the basis of carloadings estimates, the percentage decline in traffic against a year ago will be narrowed to the smallest proportions since last November. The Dow-Jones loadings index, based on the 15-year average, should be lifted to a new peak for the current recovery.
* • «
STEEL RATE CLIMBING—
Hopes regarding expansion in steel activity showed signs of fulfillment in the climb in Youngstown district steel operations. The rate there was placed at 55% yesterday. This compares with 48% during the week of September 24. The Youngstown district is benefiting from expanded automobile releases and from an im
provement in miscellaneous buying.
Steel shares for the first time in many weeks showed signs of shaking off the lethargy that has gripped them and were carried forward in large transaction*. National Steel and Youngstown Sheet A Tube were two of tbe outstanding gainers, while Bethlehem and U. S. Steel common moved up towards their best levels of the year.
Large scale speculative buying of tbe steel Issues was prompted by the realization that these traditionally are tardy in sharing in market advances. After tbe considerable time epent in broad backing and filling it was assumed that they were ready to attempt a thrust at new high levels for tbe year.
• • •
OILS—
Notwithstanding the fact that seasonal factors and conditions within tbe industry are nor too premising at the moment, oil sharee played a prominent part in the day’s upturn. Seasonally, gasoline consrumption should start tapering off from here yet the industry has started this month with a heavy inventory. Meanwhile, gas and fuel oil stocks reached new high levels The crude oil supply is leas a cause for concern than tbe gasoline inventory. On a daily supply basis the crude supply is quite low. Moreover. crude can be controlled at the source. But high refinery runs have built up gasoline supplies ano caused weakness in the price structure. Tne wholesale and retail price for gasoline currently is at the lowest level in recent years.
In view of the current statistical situation some interests in tbe oil trade think it would be a mistake to go back to a seven-day crude production schedule. There has been some talk of restoring the full production week in Texas. Continuation of the present five-day week .schedule might give the industry a chance to establish a firmer statistical position during the winter months.	•	•	•
BRITISH MARKET—
The British stock market did not share the enthusiasm displayed here, industrials moving up moderately there while rails were unchanged However, some brokers with London connections anticipate that our strength will influence the London market for the greater part of our gains came after the close of British trading
Britshers are worrying about higher taxation to finance building up ot armaments, particularly the air force This is expected to he a strain on sterling and British tundy. How* ever, there is an underlying feeling of optimism there based on the hope that European political affairs are going to be cleared up shortly.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.