Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 13, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
pg. 17
SOW THEY STAN
Increased Earning*:
Industrials .....-
Rails..............
Utilities .........
Decreased Earning*:
Industrials .......
Rails ............
Utilities .........
Since e Apr. 1 . ..	38
...	15
...	24
96
16
32
lows, for the
Additions yesterday
6
3
6
9
9
Stock Ex-
year 1939.
By Robert Uaffan
^7cdnesda\'s *tock market continued to capitalize on the slightly better tone of foreign cables. Italy’s apparent intention to respect the integrity of Greece seemed to ea*e the tension over fleet movements in the Mediterranean. Stock prices moved up rather easik but trading was conducted at a cautious pace and volume was under recent levels.
1 ne lack: ot liquidating pressure permitted Mme fairly sizable gain*?. Union Carbide. International Harvester, Standard Oil of New Jersey. General Motors and American Can gained ground rather easily. Trading was not quite as broad as in recent sessions. but there was fairly general improvement in the stocks which appeared on the tape.
Many of the public utility preferred issues were stronger in the morning dealings. Among stronger common issues, were Pacific Gas &. Electric, Southern California Edison, Public Service of New Jersey and North American. The Dow-Jones public utility average gained more percentagewise than the industrials and rails, moving up 0.71 points to 21.91. Raile gained 0.62 points and industrials 2.40 points.
Final prices were not at the best levels of the day, some letdown taking place in the last hour	—
little were quite so did American Telephone, was higher while commodities easier.
as buying interest slowed up. There was selling, however, and most of the gains retained. Communications issues were strong. Western Union gained easily and The bond market were a shade
the Street reto place orders
AIRCRAFT—
There have been reports in cently that the Army is about for several hundred -airplanes. - At the moment
the Army is in no position, to place any business for its present appropriations are practically exhausted and it must await new money appropriations which are still to be discussed before a conference of House and Senate committees. When the appropriation is settled, it will then have to go before President Roosevelt for approval, all of which means there should be a period -of several weeks before the Army is in a position to place orders with aircraft makers.
Another rumor that North American Avia^ tion will be out of competition for attack bombers due to the crash of one of its planes Tuesday is ill-founded. Most of that airplane’s tests had been completed before the crash and it was simply undergoing tactical tests at the time of the accident. North American Aviation was low bidder in this competition and its airplane naturally will figure in consideration by the Army.
CORRECTION—
In this column yesterday it was stated that if war broke out involving Great Britain, France, Germany or Italy, Eastman Kodak rights would be canceled and the holder of these rights would merely stand to lose his commissions to the broker. The rights, however, are not conditioned in any way. the war clause merely giving the underwriter the right to withdraw from the contract.
SEES NEW HIGHS—
Both economic logic and historical probabilities say that the market is not in a sustained major decline and that new highs for the recovery will be achieved within one year from the low of the current intermediate movement. Smith. Barney & Co. says. It is extremely important to realize, the firm says, that the market actually is following the pattern of past experience. It is doing exactly what it has always done under similar circumstances In history.	. .. .	.	...
relation probable course over the remainder of 1939. 5Vithout perspective of previous experience, the performance so far this year appears to be a
The importance of thia fact is in the of the market’s recent action to its
shocking double cross of fairly rational expectations held at the end of 1938 by the great majority of professional observers. In the light of history, however, it is merely going through a conventional routine.
The routine tbe market has been following. Smith. Barney & Co. says, is the cancellation of 60% to 75r,r of its 1938 April to July advance. Sixty years of history show that the market has always lost 60% to 75r? of the advance starting a new bull movement when such advance amounted to 40% or more within a period of four months or less. The correct interpretation of market action during 1938. the firm continues, called for refusal to recognize the post-Mumch highs as the second phase of a major recovery movement. The September war scare reaction cancelled less than 40% of the preceding advance. It should have been obvious, it Is argued, that the seven market days following Munich represented a psychological freak—a period of sudden release from terrific tension that was translated into a brief concentrated buying wave that carried stock market averages to new highs. This stampede, the firm contends, was in reality an unconventional climax of the first phase of the recovery rather than the initiation of the second phase. Under this interpretation it was necessary to assume that the market still had ahead of it the three to six months secondary correction that would cancel 60% to 75% of the recorded average gains.
of the market would conform business activ-
MARKET AND BUSINESS—
The foregoing- interpretation action by Smith, Barney & Co. rather neatly with a pattern of
ity set up at the start of this year by one of the big electrical equipment companies. Whereas most business observers were looking for a good first quarter, this firm estimated privately that the first quarter would be "draggy” but that the second quarter would show improvement which would carry into tbe third quarter of this year.
Strictly from a stock market standpoint, most traders and investors would say that “draggy” hardly was an adequate description for a stock market that proved to b« full of air pockets. But the industrial company was talking about business activity and it must be conceded that the first quarter business record was hardly worse than “draggy.” The stock market. moreover, has been extremely sensitive to war threats and this may have left it open to somewhat more violent fluctuations than otherwise would be the case.
The stock market action over the past year is open to several interpretations, but there is still one fact that is highly puzzling to many business and market observers, and that involves the question of how one can reconcile a bearish business outlook with record high bank deposits, extremely easy money and a reasonably firm rate of business activity.
farm equipments—
Two of the leading farm equipment shares that were distinctly disappointing in the June to November market advances of 1938 have been acting a shade better recently. Harvester, which gained 4 points yesterday, appears to have been rather well supported above the extreme bear market low level established early last summer. Deere has been somewhat similar in its behavior. Offhand it would seem that issues of this type that were lacking in rallying ability last summer and fall would be among the first to decline to new low ground when the market weakened, but despite the fact that scores of issues are now under their 1938 bear market lows these two issues so far have been making a stand above their extreme lows.
Their performance probably can be rational-
ized in the conditions affecting the farm equipment situation. It was recognized officially last year that the farm implement industry probably would show no improvement before the latter half of 1939. Throughout the latter half of 193S, when business generally was on the upgrade, the decline in farm income was still under way. For this reason, there was no point in developing any particular optimism over farm machinery business prospects. The outlook for farm purchasing power is still somewhat clouded, but several opinions are being ventured that notwithstanding confusing political factors affecting farm policy the decline is now scraping bottom.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.