Anglo--Russian Pact Progress Eases Tension: London Market Reflects ...
By G.V. ORMSBY Staff Correspondent of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 25, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Anglo—Russian
Pact Progress
Eases Tension
London Market Reflects Chamberlain’s Announcement of Impending- Agreement
Outlook for Peace Improves
by G. v. Ormsby
Staff Correspondent of Tut Wall Stkect Journal
LONDON—Announcement by Prime Minister Chamberlain of the imminence of an Anglo-Russian agreement yesterday bolstered hopes for further relaxation of international tension. The I^ondon stock market—faithful mirror of world politics—swiftly reflected the improved sentiment oy staging a very strong close.
If, as generally expected, the Russian treaty rounds off the series of anti-aggression pacts with which Britain hopes to balance the Rome-Berlin axis, financial and political quarters here believe that it should greatly reduce the possibility of a European war in the near future.
Although Mr. Chamberlain did not reveal the exact terms of the proposed agreement with Russia, recent reports in well-informed quarters indicate that it will take the form of an alliance—possibly with some limiting reservations, for there have been suspicions on the part of both parties since the beginning. However, barring some last minute hitch which would prevent actual signature of the treaty, the Russian pact should prove a formidable counter-poise to Italo-German ambitions and make really effective Anglo-French ’ guarantees to Poland and Rumania.
Thus, the short term trend, at any rate, is toward a more peaceful outlook even though it cannot be expected that Hitler will abandon his dreams of European domination. In the opinion of observers here his most likely course would appear to be an effort to test the strength of the new Franco-Russian-British alliances, either by attempting to keep up nervous tension or by actually working up some critical situation.
. On the other hand, it is believed that the Italian end of the Rome-Berlin axis is in none too good a domestic situation. Reports reaching here indicate that Italy's internal economy is reaching a point where _ external assistance may be necessary, and it is reported, without official confirmation as yet, that Germany and Italy may be contemplating a customs and currency pact. The Reich certainly could not afford much financial assistance to its partner, but it could supply expert administrative assistance to aid in bolstering Italy's program of economic self-sufficiency.
Thus, despite the ever-present complicating factors, the general trend of international politics points toward a continued easing of international tension—a process which would be greatly aided, in the short run, by signature of a British-Russian alliance.
Financial circles feel this situation is likely to be reflected in growing public confidence, resulting in expanded stock market trading and an increase tn investment buying. Some small but genuine investment interest already appears to have been attracted to London markets in the past few days—a development which has had an important and disproportionate effect on prices due to the shortage of shares in dealers’ hand**-
This development climaxes a recovery in markets here which started in British Government securities on May 2 and has since continued almost without interruption. Originally, this uptrend was motivated by an easing monetary position which financial quarters held to be a reflection both of relaxation of international tension and a determination on the part of the British Treasury to maintain an easy money policy.
The more general market recovery, spreading from governments into foreign bonds, was at first due to short covering which gave a strong initial impetus to the upswing—there having been very large bear accounts outstanding. But later, the market received investment Please turn to pogo 11, column 4
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
I
Anglo-Russian Pact
--------Continued from First Page-------- support, although not as yet in really substantial volume,
British Government Financing
The continued rise in gilt-edge bonds and the recent flotation of new bond issues by two of the Dominion governments, Australia and South Africa, has led to widespread discussion as to whether the British Government is preparing to issue long-term bonds for a part of the £400,000,000 which is must borrow during the current fiscal year.
However, many well-informed sources do not anticipate such an issue until autumn. It is argued that, provided there are no additional international crises, quotations on government securities will rise further in the near future and that the government will be able to obtain more favorable terms if it first generates additional savings by financing its expenditures by means of Treasury bills.	'
Moreover, the outstanding Treasury bill issue is still £130,000,000 below the same date! a year ago owing to gold losses. At the same time, the ratio of clearing banks liquid assets is below the 30% minimum they usually maintain, and until this is rectified the banks would be unlikely to take up any new, long-term government issues.
The scope for further appreciation in government funds is indicated by the fact that the Financial Times’ index of gilt-edge bonds I on Tuesday night stood at 105.7, compared with i a year's low of 102.1 on the eve of Hitler’s j speech. However, the index still is below the March peak of 108.4 before the German march I into Prague.
Gilt-Edge Issues Set Pace
The advance in gilt-edge issues also has stihiulated other sections of the market although industrial common stocks connected with armaments are advancing somewhat hesitantly: owing to the Government's recent announcement that additional taxation will be placed on armament profits. Until specific terms of this proposed legislation are made public, dealers will be unable to assess the full implications of the cabinet's intentions. Industrial companies which would benefit indirectly from government expenditures for armaments, such as Imperial Chemicals and the electrical equipment companies, are receiving investment support as are the shares of some of the one-price department stores, breweries, tobacco companies, automobile manufacturers and similar consumption goods companies which should benefit from increased purchasing power arising from wages paid by government armament contractors.
Domestic railroad issues have been strong recently, mainly on reports showing Improved gross income and partly on the prospects of Parliament enacting a railroad aid bill placing the carriers on a more equitable competitive basis with the trucking companies.
Oil stocks generally are again showing improvement, stimulated by the excellent Venezuela Oil Concessions dividend, but commodity shares as a whole are hesitant, awaiting clearer indications of a trade revival in the United States. Without such improvement, financial circles here do not believe that any real recovery in commodity prices can be expected.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.