Markets Hopeful: Unanimous Verdict Despite Lack of Any Tangible ... Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 30, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Unanimous Verdict Despite Lack of Any Tangible Developments
Stocks Up in. London, New
York, Paris, Berlin—‘War Commodities’ Drop
British Money Market Revives
The European situation appeared to be still deadlocked yesterday, but international markets clearly said they thought prospects for peace had improved.
Of course, markets are not infallible but the very pattern of behavior which could logically be expected if peace were assured was traced here and abroad in key stock, commodity, money and foreign exchange markets.
Perhaps the most significant single develop** ment occurred in the London money market which showed a complete transformation from previous tension. Funds flooded in from all quarters. Toward the close, offerings of call money were being made against bills under the quoted rate of 3%. Bill rates remained unchanged.
Stock and bond markets went up here and abroad, not only in the financial centers of the “Peace Front” but in Berlin* and Milan also. Those commodities which had been buoyed by war prospects declined. Finally the pressure on sterling eased. The pound advanced and then hung virtually motionless as new developments were awaited.
Delay Favorably Interpreted
Opinion appeared to be gaining ground in financial quarters that every day which could be gotten over increased the chances of peace, giving tempers a chance to cool and allowing full realization of Anglo-French determination to fight to penetrate the Nazi official mind as well as the German public itself.
Almost sensational was behavior of the London Stock Exchange, from which apparently other security markets took their cue. Without the slightest shred of tangible favorable news, and while Parliament was assembling to hear the Prime Minister declare that the danger of war has not been removed, London stock prices swept ahead in the highest gain in months.
Industrial averages of the London Financial Times jumped 2.5 .points to 97.0. It was -the largest gain for any one day since January 31 when a gain of 2.8 points was shown. It was also the second largest gain to be made this
Please turn To page 7, column k
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
--------Continued Irom First Page------------ year. Although the British rail wage negotiations are still going on. both employers and workers now going before the National Tribunal, the Financial Times rail average jumped 1.5 points to 42.7. It was the largest gain for the rails since May 5.
Government Bonds Rise
Nor was London strength confined solely to stocks. British government bonds, under lealer-ship of 2’Ar^ Consols, scored advances as .much ** £11*- to lift quotations well above the minimum lows established last week.
Arbitrage business remained restricted in Paris owing to communications difficulties, but nevertheless the Bourse was strong. Amsterdam also reported strength. Milan and Berlin were cheerful with higher prices, although advices from Germany and Italy suggested that the peoples of the two countries are only now slowly beginning to realize that their leaders were sadly mistaken in their belief that neither England nor France wou’d stand firm.
With this European background, the New York stock market opened strong and held its position throughout trading, closing with a final burst of strength which carried the Dow-Jones averages to the best levels of the day. Industrials gained 2.73 points to 137.39 while the rails were up 0.74 point to 26.76. Government bonds were firm.
Commodity Markets
Commodity market averages for both United Kingdom and New York declined? largely under influence of war commodities. Dow-Jones index of commodity futures lost 0.19 point to 47.54. while Reuters United Kingdom Commodity Index declined to 139 3 from 141.9.
Wheat was very weak in principal markets, such as Liverpool. Winnipeg. Chicago and Buenos Aires. While this may have been partly due to exchange fluctuations, it was regarded as resulting largely from lessened war fears which also brought an irregular trend m sugar. Cotton was firm, because advance in sterling encouraged heavy foreign buying. Hides were very strong in an independent movement affected sympathetically by the strong stock market, as well as continued good business move and a renewed tanner demand. Tin was very strong.
For the time being at any rate, the race to dump sterling overboard came to an end and the pound bounced up 10 ■„ cents to close at $4.39’*. Simultaneously, the London gold price fell to 157 shillings per ounce from the record established on Monday of 161 shillings but the price is still fixed on a supply and demand ' basis with no reference to the dollar-sterling I exchange rate so it still is not feasible to convert London gold price into dollars.
Volume of business done in the sterling mar- 1 ket dwindled as traders awaited fresh develop- ! ments Quieter conditions made it possible to quote better markets for some of the other cur- I rencics and guilders closed unchanged at 53 55 ' cents.	•
Huge supplies cf pold are being rushed across the Atlantic to both New York and Canada. British customs returns yesterdav showed that in the four days ended mid-da"v'
Monday roughly $80 000.000 gold was shipped from United Kingdom to United States and about $29,000,000 to Canada. Undoubtedly this is all official gold, arising out of final defense of the pound before the peg was withdrawn last Friday Yesterday, the S. S. Aquitania arrived with estimated $13,800,000 gold which makes $41,600,000 which the Federal Reserve Bank has received from the Bank of England so far this week.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.