Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 10, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 13
Abreast of the Market
Market Diary
------Saturday	. U3t---IMS
Call tr.oMy, renewal .... Time moor/, BO days ••• AottpUncea. 00 day» ... M'otnmereinl paper ..... France, cablet 	 eterllBK. cable* 		 Ke. * York uink rate.... Bewrve 8y»tem ratio ...	..	1% ..	w.% .. ..	.«2M1I ..	4.68* ..	1% ..	84.7%	1% .0307% 4.96% 1% 80.4%
Copper, domestic .......	..	•10.75	10
Lead. New York 		..	4.85	4.00
SUver, New York 		..	4»fc	
8teel scrap (Pitta. No. 1)	..	18«l3fe
Zinc, East fit, Louin ....	..	4. Ml	4.00
Futures:		
Coffee. Rio, old, May ..	..	••4.32	4.16
Com, May 		..	48	«o%
Cotton, May 			>.	••7.98	8.58
Hides, old, June 			>.	••11.38	8.69
Oats. May 		..	»w>	38% 12.01
Rubber, May 		. ••16.10	
Silk, raw, No. 1, May «	.. ••2.18	Closed
Sugar. raw. No. 3, May ..	. ••.1.06	1.96
Tin, Standard, May 	 Wheat, May 		..	••45.88	39.06
		84%
Wool tops, May 		..	••78.7	79.0
•Quoted by American Smelting 4 Refining Co. ••Thursday'! prices. Comodlty markets closed Friday and Saturday.
By Robert Laffan
Further deterioration in the foreign situation broke the stock market’s resistance through the'closing half of last week. Saturday’s price losses, taken in conjunction with Thursday's declines, gave the market such momentum on the downside as to be comparable with that c>f March, 1938 and October, 1937. There was, however, little disposition to assume that such selling was climactic. The disturbing manner in which new trouble flared up in Europe created a very discouraged sentiment and after the feeble and short lived rallies through the early part of the week the market lost all Bigns of effective support.
Losses for the week amounted to approximately 11 points in the Dow-Jones industrials, while rails were off about three points and Utilities less than two points.
Whereas Europe was more disposed to be a buyer than a seller in the early stages of our decline, and up to the early part of last week, the closing sessions found some weakening in support from that quarter. In Saturday’s session, with London closed, our market had to stand the brunt of offerings from all quarters, foreign affairs over the Good Friday holiday apparently being viewed with new seriousness abroad as well as here. One example was the manner in which wheat shook off all hesitancy and pushed decidedly into new high ground.
HOW THEY STAND—
	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	Apr. 1	Saturday
Industrials 			 23	3
		 5	2
TTHlifiM 			 13	
Decreased Earnings:		
		 68	7
RjiiJq				 8	1
Utilities 			 21	6
Stocks that made	new hiffhs and lows for	
year will be found on	Page 10.	
That was fair evidence that the markets were beginning to discount war as the week closed.
While the brokers had a generous share of margin calls to send out, distress selling of this type was incidental. Pronounced breaks in blue chip industrials of the calibre of Eastman Kodak, du Pont, Dow Chemical, Allied Chemical and others indicated that influential quarters were taking serious view of international developments and such selling carried considerable weight in a market that was supported only by odd-lot traders and investors, and bargain hunters.
• • •
SPRING TRADE—
What started as a slow selling movement on disappointment over early Bpring trade prospects manifestly has grown into a genuine war scare market. Actually what is transpiring now in the stock market hardly can be attributed to domestic affairs. The Barron’s business index moved up to 73.4 from 72.5 for the week ended April 1, and the rail traffic and automobile sales figures for the similar period make a satisfactory showing. Department store sales figures have been affected lately by bad weather and general financial uncertainty but they hardly are bad enough to warrant the weakness in securities of these companies.
Unfortunately, however, the business community has been robbed temporarily of what Bhould be its chief support, namely the supply of easy money. Potentially money is as easy as ever but actually the capital market has for the present frozen up. Washington missed itH opportunity to enliven the capital market when it allowed the tax relief issue to die through lack of competent leadership and when it failed to rise to the glittering but vague promises put forth by Secretary of Commerce
Hopkins. Thus, the near four billions of excess bank reserves remain potentially helpful rather than actually so. Forced to contemplate the possibility of a war-time economy, and with our peace-time economy dangling in mid-air, uncertain of whether we will engage in more pump priming'" or less, private capital finds nothing inspiring in the present picture.
... '
UNCERTAINTY—
The dead weight of this uncertainty probably is much worse in its effects than an actual conflict Terrible as war is, markets have had to live with it through the ages, adopting themselves to it periodically. Complications in the present instance revolve around the degree to which governments are extended financially, and to recognition of the' fact that war would impose further strains that would have to be borne by the individual. Perhaps one of the reasons our market is more depressed than London, for instance, is that we had begun to visualize in the last elections a trend away from government domination and have lately begun to fear that war will bring more sweeping dictatorial powers. '
Disturbing as such thoughts may be, it must be recognized that a thirty-point decline in the Dow-Jones industrial averages within a month goes a long way to discount much that is now feared. An actual outbreak of war hardly could produce market shocks more swift or.sweeping than that. The government's control over the banks and over credit are so great that it should be able to cushion or eliminate the shock of hostilities abroad. Easy money is now a government policy, not an accidental market phenomenon, and the government appears obliged in its own interest to maintaih it so and to offset the traditional hardening in money rate that war normally would bring.
...
EARNINGS—
The market 1B now much more liberally priced in relation to earnings than it has been in several years. While investors may be biased at the moment in favor of cash, under more settled conditions or even under war itself they may be expected to Beek a return on their money. Despite all the talk about taking the profits out of war there are immense difficulties in such a procedure, and such a policy could be only relative after all. Just so long as the government remains committed to and can successfully maintain low interest rates on government and high grade bonds, dividend paying common stocks and medium grade bonds are bound to make the public reconsider the urgency of the present rush for cash.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.