Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 17, 1939;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
President Roosevelt’s messagb to the dicta-wrs on Saturday appeared drarn’arically as the source of stimulation for which the market had been waiting. On ^londav the market found sufficient technical strength to stage a rally and on Tuesdav, despite the fact that several of the pivotal industrials were driven down to new lows for the Alarch-April decline, the supply of offerings dried up abruptly and shorts were compelled to reach for stock before that session ended.
Fublic utility stocks, after establishing' new lows on Tuesday morning, actually ended with alight net gains on the day. Many industrials did likewise. This type of performance strengthened the conviction of tape observers that quite Apart from the outside news the market had at last found sufficient technical strength to make a stand and to await some favorable development.
The news characteristically follows the trend ©f the market. Early m March the inability of stocks to gather sufficient strength to attempt a thrust at last November's peak levels appeared as a disconcerting contradiction of all the fundamental factors in the business and credit situation. It was not until the market began to weaken abruptly that the steady deterioration in foreign affairs turned up as the ©bvious cause of unsettlement.
	Sines	Additions
Increased Earnings:	Apr. 1	Saturday
Industrials	  •	•	... 62	7
Rails - -	-	-	... 28	6
		- - - -	•. a	30	2
Decreased Earnings:		
	... 12*	g
		........	...	24	4
Utilities 		...	41	1
NEW HIGHS AND LOWS—
Saturday on the New York Stock Exchange no stock made a new high and 4 stocks made new lows, for the year 1939.
New Lows—
Am	FUlalmry FTr Sfe&rp A 1>« pf
Oew Pr I pf..
further curtailment due to accumulated supplies. There are brighter shades in the business picture, however. E>epartment store sales for the first week of April jumped 22% ahead of a year ago, a highly spectacular gain measured by performances earlier this year. Machine tool orders last month were the largest since late 1937. Automobile sales and production are making a fair showing despite weather handicaps and poor conditions In security markets.
• • •
MARKET—
It may yet be too early to bury the hopes with which we entered this year, or to abandon ' the optimism of a month ago. Fresident Roose-■ velt now appears to be assuming the role that ! Prime Minister Chamberlain assumed 4ast Sep-‘ tember, and an effort undoubtedly is being made ! to bring the full weight of democratic world ’ opinion against further aggressions by the dictators. In the long run he may be just as ' disillusioned as Mr. Chamberlain is, but the j fact remains that the dictators so far have I preferred to trade with world opinion rather ' than to risk an open conflict and another , breathing spell might be at hand.
i The foreign news happens to be the prln-I cipal market factor at the moment and all i other considerations are secondary in their influence.
For some reason foreigners have never quite embraced the fatalistic viewpoint that we have in regard to war. While it is true that the movement of troops, arms and other manifestations ©f warlike preparations cannot be treated lightly, and have warranted much of the uneasiness that has been felt here, so far as foreign operations m American stocks are concerned there has been & stubborn tendency to undertake new commitments on acute weak spots rather than to yield to frightened selling. There have been days recently when the London stock market has been weak, but it never seriously threatened to break through the January lows. That market's performance, in fact, has been a rather remarkable contrast to the performance before Munich, when high grade bonds, government issues and stocks were utterly demoralized.
UTILITIES—
It should be noted that the Dow-Jones utility average actually did register a new bull market peak hardly more than a month ago. at 26.52, The reasons for this were natural enough. Electric power production has been showing a highly satisfactory rate of gam. First quarter earnings of several public utility systems, applicable to the common stock, will run substantially ahead of a year ago. Certain companies, according to published estimates, will show share earnings two and even three times as great as at this time a year ago. This would be of less importance had utility earning power dropped to the near-vanishing point a year ago, as some industrial earnings did, but the utilties right along have maintained a fair rate of earnings and many have been paying dividends that offer a generous return at prevailing market levels and in relation to interest rates generally.
In short, the conditions that prevailed a month ago in regard to public utilities are still present and might be used again as a bullish argument were anything to happen to change investor psychology. It is true that the business situation had slowed up some in the past month and possibly the outlook is less attractive. But nothing can be taken for granted in a situation such as that now existing, where we have in a month witnessed remarkable extremes in the public attitude towards stocks. It is not beyond the realm of possibility that a release of tension might cause some of these Issues and others outside the utility field to ■nap back to former peaks. Certainly, the gaming power has not vanished yet.
IXJMESTIC—
The poor performance of our own market as asrainst that of London naturally invited the suspicion that there might be some hidden difficulties in our own situation that were being overlooked due to the more spectacular European attraction. Undoubtedly there are some ■ore spots in our own situation but they are hardly hidden and it is doubtful if they have been overlooked.
What should be noted is that the stock market hardly more than a month ago appeared to be ready for a test of former bull market peak prices and then suddenly it broke abruptly through all former resistance levels and established hundreds of new lows. The scope of the change and the suddenness of it are enough to make one lose all sense of proportion and consequently it would appear advisable to re-examine the bullish arguments that were being used hardly more tha a month ago. just as though nothing had happened in the meantime.
BUSINESS ACTIJTTY—
Business activity, to be sure, has slumped noticeably in the past month. The abrupt decline in major business indices lately, however, is due in large measure to the soft coal strike. That is an artificial factor and while it is temporarily ™ nettling It is more in the nature of business deferred rather than business lost.
No apologies, however, can be made for the continued lack of seasonal gain in steel operations unless we refer again to the European situation as a partial influence. It should be noted, however, that commercial construction Is lagging and this is affecting the steel business. Most industries are holding down capital expenditures and most of the heavy construction today is public work. Here we run into the heart of the trouble, the eternal conflict In public and private spending and the Inability to make the two flower together.
Textile production appears to .be headed for
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.