Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Sep 10, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
^Market Diary

developments bearing on the war will find a re* flection in the market for steel products.
By Robert
the week*
Bu.vers were as traders full signifi-atr attacks, in markets in part to
Laitan
The destruction in London over •nd awakened new tears for the position of Great Britain and produced a reaction of from .1 to 3 points in leading stocks, cautious and bids were scarcer awaited an understanding of the cance of the new impetus given to Since much of the improvement in recent weeks has been credited revived confidence in Great Britain’s ability to resist, there naturally was some desire to guard against any setback to this confidence.
Performance of the market again demonstrated that the war news was the primary day-to-day market consideration. The industrial news still occupies a secondary role. Even the national elections are discussed in connection with the war. rather than independently.
Commodities suffered a reaction along with stocks. Apparently business men now have their eyes glued to the war bulletins almost as much as have financial people. There were reports yesterday that Russia is seeking 34,000,000 to $6,000,000 of oil drilling equipment here. Big Navy contracts were let yesterday. The durable goods industries are receiving more support from items that are needed in defense er war.
Stocks suffered fairly extensive losses in the first hour and they extended to all groups. Later the volume of offerings diminished but there was little evidence of a rally and the close was fairly near the lows.
UTILITY DOUBLE TOP—
The public utility stocks have run into resistance approximately in the same area they encountered it in late June after Wendell Winkle's nomination by Republicans. The close on June 23, the day after the nomination, was 22.85 in the Dow-Jones average but earlier on that day the utilities were higher and the close was not at the best levels.
In recent weeks, utilities lagged behind the rail and industrial groups, no doubt reflecting greater uncertainty over the election prospects and the lengthening odds on Presidcm" Roosevelt. Late last week the utility average edged above the 23 level, or to about the highs of the day of June 28, and since then they have backed off.
SHIP CONSTKUCTIO.N—
Some phases of our business activity may hang on the fate ot the war abroad, but there are others that are not likely to be changed regardless of tbe war's outcome. After many years of vacilatmg. the United States appears determined to build for itself a ranking position as a sea-power. The Navy Department's announcement of contract awards and allocations for 200 combat vessels yesterday has launched this country on a program that will require many years to fulfill. Merchant construction already under way is topping previous records.
A policy that formerly placed grea.t reliance upon this country’s friendly relations with Great Britain, and the latter's strength in sea power,-apparently is coming to a close for good, for the strictest isolationists as well as the most militant in our country seem agreed that our dependence upon another country for sea power is unwise.
Brief efforts to raise our position as a sea power were made in 1920, but th- effort aww subsided and through the '20s and until 1936 •we coasted along, disinclined to make any decisive rh»»ng-e m our traditional policy. Passage ot the Ship Subsidy Act in 1936 launched us oil a program of increased merchant construction. With crisis piled upon crisis since then, we are now engaged in rounding out tbe military sea power to augment merchant construction. It is a program that is " •	■
again as abruptly as that of
sot the
likely to lapse early ’20s.
RAILS—
Followers of rail market's behavior at able interest. If the
are
watching: the with consider-
shares this point ____	list stabilizes shortly, and the market shows some evidence that it is engaged in no more than a minor technical downswing, the rails should quickly regain friends. Yesterday the Senate accepted a compromise version of tbe regulatory bill which has been held up twice in the past year for joint House-Senate committee revision. The bill, which would subject water carriers to regulation similar to that now applicable to railroads and motor carriers, now goes to the White House for approval. The bill in its final form still restricts rail management from obtaining maximum benefits through consolidations and requires that compensation be given up to four years to workers displaced by reorganizations and consolidations. While economies, therefore, may not be realized in their entirety for several years, the compromise on this point nevertheless seems to be the best way out of a difficult situation.
While nothing of any great immediate importance may accrue to railroads as a result of legislation along the foregoing lines, nevertheless a little progress is being made in improving the long range prospects. Railroad stocks and bonds are selling at levels rarely witnessed while earning power was at current levels, the combination of past disapppoint-ments and current uncertainties producing present market prices. Since timing, however, is one of the uncertain quantities in the present situation, and rail securities might conceiveably get worse before they get better, there is a disposition on the part of speculators to observe tbe technical action of the general market for a while before becoming fully committed to the bull side in rails.
* * •
STEEL NEAR 1939 HIGH—
The high point in steel operations in 1939 was 94%%, reached in late November as the culmination of a spurt in operations that started with the outbreak of war in September. This week's schedule of steel operations, according to the American Iron & Steel Institute, is 91.9%. a new high for this year and a decided rebound from the holiday week earlier this month.
Various trade observers are not predicting any particular spurt in steel operations from this level, if for no other reason than that tbe Dearness to capacity precludes much of a spurt, but the opinion appears to be general that production should be sustained for as much of the future as can be reasonably foreseen. At least, there are no signs of a topheavy condition in operations, unsupported by new ordering. On the contrary, the demand for heavy steel for shipbuilding and railroad equipment manufacturing is quite encouraging.
Naturally, the war is playing a definite part ta shaping the course of the steel .industry. Any 1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.