Abreast of the Market: Market Diary
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 26, 1940;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 15
Market Diary
Laffa?c strength
By ROBERT
Evidently Monday’s --------.
utility issues was one ot those moods of the moment, tor the gains were more than effaced yesterday and there was some marked sottness in other sections. Industrial issues slipped 1 to nearly 4 points and the rails lost almost a half point in the averages.
The armament shares suffered most. Views about the war and rearmament have changed extensively in recent weeks, trances capitulation has already had the effect o! bringing about some softness in the copper price structure. The check that the rise in steel operations has received is also attributed in some measure to that situation. Now that Great Britain is carrying on the conflict alone, some caution and even pessimism has arisen.
True, there
•which remains any prolonged slump in The view 1.—-	---- -
program may widen in against the British. Bv.t . . program have been translated into production. Authorizations are one thing and production is another. A good deal of the recent upturn in industrial activity was due directly and indirectly to the sudden and belated urgency of the Allied buying Allied orders were, moreover, more profitable than the domestic armament orders promise to be. The aircraft manufacturing issues were particulraly alive to that situation yesterday.
Commodities gave up some ground. The Dow-Jones commodity index slipped more than a point. Bond prices also turned a little softer.
in
is the armament program as a domestic prop against x. !:i industrial activity, has not been abandoned that that . t.i scope if things go But only portions of that
puDHC
	Since	A-dditlona
Increaaed Earning:	June 1	Yesterday
Industrials 		. ..	54	5
Rails 	.	. .	...	4<	4
Utilities 		... 68	2
Dec reMed Earning.: Industrials 		....	17	
Rails 		... 20	
Utilities 		....	13	1
the financial district, sales in itself could advancing that had for a rise.
The vol not detej within i’
tossed about in ume of British a market from the ingredients
The fact that the market paused after com pleting a minimum technical recovery from th< May lows, and that recent efforts to whip U] a little enthusiasm in the utility *	’ ’
unable to stimulate the pivotal seemed to have been of greater significance than the few isolated transactions in the outside market. Until there is mori reason for assuming that the recent recovery was more than technical in character, the mar kefs position must be regarded as a defenslv< one.
issues wen industrials fundamenta
AIRCRAFT—
Aircraft shares showed little inclination to rally during the stronger phases of the general market recently. They were quite vulnerable, consequently, to renewed liquidation yesterday and sold down to new low levels.
A combination of circumstances appears to have affected them. There is the fact that several large industrial companies are going into the engine field on a major scale, plus the fact thRt orders in the future may be more largely domestic in origin. The government orders, moreover, will be subject to an 8Cr profits limitation after July 1, against the 12% present rate. Of course, there are still some substantial British orders on the books which will be turned out at a lucrative profit margin but holders of aircraft shares must reckon on the possibility that the British-German conflict may be settled in short, intensive war.
It has been a fact for some time that influential investors have been conservative in their appraisal of the outlook for aircraft issues. They have been aware of their vulnerability to either stiffer taxes or profits limitations, and they have seen the latter threat materialize.
Engine makers, such as Curtiss-Wright and United Aircraft, that have enjoyed a certain measure of exclusiveness in engine production now are witnessing such companies as General Motors and engines on a
Packard preparing to turn out volume basis.
• • •
RUBBER—
SYNTHETIC
Some authorities have estimated that it will take only one year for the United States to become independent of crude rubber, the summer issue of the Index, New York Trust Co. publication. states. American strategists have long been concerned over the necessity of transporting natural rubber supplies over long stretches of water. The vulnerability of communications and the control of sources by other nations, with the possibility of diversion of supplies, are chief concerns, it is pointed out.
In 1939 consumption of crude rubber in the United States reached a new high of 592,000 long tons. The manufacture of tires, tubes and tire sundries, as in the past, dominated the industry and absorbed about three-quarters of the crude rubber consumed. Mechanical rubber goods, boots and shoes, heels and soles, insulated wire and cable compounds, industrial sponge rubber, rubberized fabrics, druggists’ sundries, medical and surgical rubber goods, etc., absorbed the rest in the order given
Synthetics closely resembling rubber have been known for at least three decades, the Index states, but their practical application has been almost entirely of recent occurrence. The acceleration in development and use of synthetics has proceeded at a rate little appreciated bjz the public at large. In 1938 domestic consumption of synthetics reached a total of 1,824,000 pounds, a figure substantially greater than the consumption of plantation rubber in 1907. Consumption was expanded to 3,808,000 pounds in 1939. Among the better known synthetics are Buna, Koroseal, Neoprene and Thiokol. Some of these are very closely related to natural rubber while others neither resemble natural rubber nor each other in chemical structure.
While increased use of synthetics is indicated the extent and-effect on the volume of natural rubber consumed are not clear. However, it is stated they promise even more than reclaimed rubber to place a ceiling on the price of natural rubber, a ceiling that will decrease as synthetic costs are reduced.
PRIVATE SALES—
Private sales of Britiah-held blocks of American stocks to investment firms here are being interpreted according to the moods of the financial district. Since those moods are shifting rapidly, the interpretation is far from stable The softness that developed in the market yesterday appeared to weaken the views that these transactions, several of which are still under negotiation, can be effected without disturbance to the market.
However, it probably is a mistake to place too much importance upon the effect of these private sales. The market is suffering from no lack of financial means for absorbing offerings of this kind. It is the timidity in regard to the outlook generally that is the primary cause of the market’s behavior. “Informed buying" and •Unformed selling” are terms that are loosely
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.