Abreast of the Market: Abreast of the Market BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 14, 1940; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 15
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
The accumulation of worries over the probable duration and outcome of tbe war tended to reduce support for stocks vesterdav and the Dow-Jones averages suffered their worst break of the year. Industrials lost 7.22 points to 137.b3. rails lost 1.98 to 27.83 and the utilities dropped 1.29 points to 22.52.
Sheer fright appeared to be the dominating mornc for the selling was unsparing and indiscriminate. War babies, individual specialties. and leading1 investment issues participated in varying degrees in the downturn, which was severe wherever it struck
The week-end had failed to produce any evidence that the drive of the Germans into the low countries had been effectively checked. There wa$ additional worry over the mobilization of Italian forces on the French border AJ*. that was disturbing, but it did not reflect it-I self immediately in quotations. The opening was irregular, but pnees soon began to fade
I rapidly. Volume mounted to 2,560 000 shares | and the tape lagged several times behind floor transactions. Tbe close witnessed about the lows for the day.
Foreign currencies were down from the outset and foreign bonds also added to their losses of the preceding week. Commodities broke r.way from the traditional war pattern and ’urnod heavy* too This tended to support the view that fear of a short and decisive war influenced trading m a large measure.
V. S Government bonds were not so weak as at the outbreak of tho invasion of the low countries Their losses, nevertheless, ran to a half point and beyond. All grades of corporate issues were depressed The Dow-Jones index of 40 bonds lost 1 28 points.
Industrial news and earnings statements received little attention during the day. The source of the selling was difficult to trace. There were rumors of Dutch selling, but authorities had no information on that point.
— * • •
DOW THEORY—
By violating the 144 65 'level in the Dow-Jones industrial average and 29 7S in the rails yesterday, the stock market left little room for anything but a bearish interpretation under the i Dow theory*. Both the major and the intermediate trends must now be regarded as down under the Dow theory.	•
Of course, in a great many cases, yesterday’s decline will merely reaffirm what a number of investors have already’ known: namely, i that their stocks have been performing unsat- i isfactorily since war started There have been | a number of issues with distinctly individual bear market tendencies But the significant point is that the issues that have been performing favorably since war started weakened sufficiently* yesterday to color the entire picture The market as seen through the averages, therefore, developed bear market characteristics
There is no way of estimating under the Dow theory how long the decline can be expected to continue. It may be helpful, or it may be altogether misleading, to refer to the fact that some of the so-called major movements of the market in recent y’ears. particularly since European politics and war activities have dominated attention, have terminated quite swiftly The bull movements as well as bear movements since the middle of 2 93S have been rather subnormal m length far as the averages are concerned, but underneath that pattern there has been an individual one traced by whole groups of stocks. One of Dow’s precepts, often neglected, was that primary attention should be given to the stock and to the
Plrosr turn to Page Eleven
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
------ CContinued /rom Fage Fifteen) ----- value behind it. and that secondary attention, should be given to the trend. Both are of considerable importance in any investment program but the markets of recent years have inHi. cated that the first point cannot be neglected.
• • •
MARKET AND BLS1XESS—
The stock market appears to have broken out of a horizontal position one way while business activity has broken out in another direction. The rise of more than 4 points in steel production promises to lift the Federal Reserve Board business index quite sharply inasmuch as steel production is heavily weighted in that business index. But steel is not the only component that has been inclined to improve. It is known that new ordering in a variety of industries has been in excess of the level of production. An exception may have been the automobile industry, which is hard to measure since favorable weather has only put in
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
an appearance recently and sales consequently have been affected.
No doubt there is much psychology In the present situation. Recent events in Europe have compelled many investors to shorten their perspective. They are not so certain that the war will be a long one. It is assumed that Germany has staked everything on a powerful thrust for a quick and decisive victory. If that thrust was motivated by shortages in supplies that country may be in no position to continue the war for long if its drive meets determined opposition. On the other hand, if it is successful, the economic and psychological implications also are unsettling.
Inventory policies in a number of industries and stock market operations to a large extent have been based on the prospect for a long war. If conditions suggest that the war will be protracted, the market may become less unsettled. But the fear of a short and decisive war has placed the market on the defensive for the present.
• • •
CHRYSLER------
Chrysler's weakness has been pronounced, even for this type of a stock market. The opinion in some investment trust quarters is that it has a background in the manner in which the company has stocked dealers with cars this year.- The company on April 1 had approximately eight weeks’ stocks of new cars in dealers' hands? which would carry into July or into a period when attention must be given to preparing for new models. In these quarters, it is sui»Kested that Chrysler never attempted to produce so far ahead before and it is stated that such a policy is quite a gamble in a period where the entire business situation is in a highly fluid state.
Chrysler has* been a favorite with investment trusts-and traders for a number of years but it is noticeable that this spring there was little disposition on the part of the stock to respond to the record first quarter production figures, or to the earnings statement for that period which was unusually good However, the stock on the current decline undoubtedly has made provision for the possible excesses in inventories of new cars and from this point on it is possible that it may conform more closely to the general market pattern
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.