Abreast of the Market: Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 22, 1940; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 17
Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
The retreat of the stock market continued to parallel the fortunes of the Allies, as depicted in the latest cables. Yesterday’s performance consequently was far ■•from satisfactory. Since hopes had been built up a little on the strength of recent reports that the German advances were 'slowing up, the revelations overnight that the Nazi war machine had broken through some of the French defenses was extremely disturbing.
Still, the stock market absorbed a considerable amount of liquidation on the way down with surprising little effect on the mechanics of stock trading. There was one brief period when Bethlehem orders to buy and sell had to be held up in the morning, but that matter was quickly adjusted and trading in the issue was soon resumed.
Elsewhere, the market took offerings at steady recessions but It took them, all 3.940.000 shares, and prices were moving up from their lows during most of the final hour, especially in the last twenty minutes of trading. Net losses, however, were substantial, ranging from 2 to more than 9 points in many representative issues.
Commodity markets turned heavy again, and the bond market was carried down further. Foreign exchanges were weaker. The franc and free sterling, which were steadier recently, again broke rather sharply.
VALUE OF INDUSTRIALS---------
It hardly seems natural that a stock market can be swayed for any considerable period of time by a wholly sentimental notion. Sentiment induced by German victories hardly can be a factor forever, unless the economic situation Is also bad. In either case the question of whether some of the leading dividend paying industrial stocks are getting down to more attractive levels must be considered after so extensive a break. But it is not a question that is readily answerable. There are yields on some of the leading industrial stocks that now range from 3H% to 6%. Compared with the return on savings, and on high grade bonds, this return looks quite attractive. Such issues as American Can, du Pont, General American Transportation. General Motors, Liggett & Myers. Phelps Dodge, Sears-Roebuck and General Electric might be mentioned.
The answer, it seems, as to whether those stocks are cheap or not is dependent in a large measure, perhaps the greatest measure, on what the high grade bond and the money markets do. If the fall in high grade bonds is to be arrested, and if the plentiful supply of credit is to remain available, it docs not seem likely that owners of good industrial stocks will sacrifice them. But if yields in the high grade bond market are to become more liberal, through selling activities on the part of owners of these bonds, then stocks can be expected to be pulled down sympathetically. Since institutional holders are the principal owners of high grade bonds it is difficult to visualize a continuous process of liquidation. They can only hold cash for a relatively short period. Besides that, the govern--------Please turn to Page Thirteen
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Abreast of the Market
— (Continued from Page Seventeen}- ■— ment itself has shown no evidence that it intends to abandon its easy money policies.
PHILIP MORRIS—
The earnings report of Philip Morris is expected to appear next week, covering the fiscal year ended March 31. The company should show well over $7,000,000 earned for the year, or about $S a share on the amount of common stock outstanding at the end of the year.
It is understood that within the next two months the company will introduce the Dunhill cigarette in the new long size which has met with some popular favor. Philip Morns pays a royalty for the use of the Dunhill name but it manufactures and distributes the cigarette itself.
• • •
NYLON SOLD OLT—	„
The new Nylon hosiery that was put on sale at local and suburban retail stores on May 15 has been sold out and stores are waiting eagerly for additional supplies which may not be available before June. Some suburban stores sold out their supplise the first day they were placed on the counters. Of course, there was a limited supply but at the same time the public readiness to snap up the existing stock is rather remarkable.
The new type of hosiery had a good deal ot advance notice, and it seems to have captured the hosiery market. It is remarkable too, that the public, particularly women shoppers, once regarded synthetic fibres or materials as inferior to the natural product. Now they are sought after as better than the natural product.
		
HOW THEY STAND—	Since	Additions
Increased Earnings:	May 1	Yesterday
Industrials 		,.	140	4
Rails				..	51	1
Utilities			,. 81	
Decreased Earnings:		
Industrials 	.	„.	..	45	1
Rails			..	17	2
Utilities 		. . .	14	
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.