Abreast of the Market
BY ROBERT LAFFAN
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Dec 9, 1941;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 17
Abreast of the Market
-By Robert Laftan-
Stocks withstood the initial shock of the Japanese attack well but revised estimates of the extent of the damage to the Navy at Pearl Harbor brought a secondary wave of selling that carried the market under initial lows. Final losses ranged from 1 to 5 points in pivotal issues in a session that saw trading mount to the vicinity of two million shares, the largest turnover of the vear.
, At the opening, prices were off fractions to about 3 points. While some orders were bunched In units of several thousand shares, the offerings were less than might have been anticipated considering the circumstances. A drying up of selling in the first hour soon inspired a wave of short covering and speculative buying. notably in heavy industry issues. Sugar issues developed a stronger tone and the emphasis before noon was clearly on buying rather than selling.
However, this phase soon evaporated as of-cial accounts of more extensive damage were disclosed and as Japanese claims produced greater nervousness Rails soon lost their morning buoyancy and plunged to new iow ground. New York Central, which dropped to 9',-> at the opening, lost its brief strength and broke a full point under the opening level before support put in an appearance. Steels, aircraft and utility’ issues all fell below their morning levels and helped to produce hundreds of new lows for the year. While there was a little greater steadiness toward the close, most issues were near the lows for the day at the close The Dow-Jones industrial average dropped approximately 41, points to a level only a shade above the worst prices reached at the bottom of the decline following the fall of France In May. 1940.
Commodity markets, after a day ot considerable nervousness, turned firmer and in terms of the Dow-Jones futures index finished moderately higher on the day. The bond market was generally easier Government issues dropped a point, rallied and then weakened again.
A Market -Vo I-cxx Selective Believed To Be in Prospect
There arc almost as many opinions as there are people in Wall Street. Out ot respect for the unusual complexity of the economic situation the most thoughtful of market operator and investment fund managers are not inclined to be dogmatic about stock market prospects.
The consensus, however, points to the exceptional amount of deflation that has already transpired in stock price movements, the vivid contrast with World War I conditions and tithe better technical and fundamental set-up The market, in other words, is much strongci fundamentally than at the outbreak of World War I—it has already demonstrated that—and it has potentialities of higher prices
Moreover a hitherto obscure portion of the picture has now been filled in investors and speculators need no longei about from day to day wondering whether peace or a full-fledged war economy and a long war is in view. The last accoutrements of business-
Stock market
as-usual and strikes-as-usual now drop away The outlook, to that extent, is clarified.
The unknown is always the chief handicap for a speculative market, for a speculator and for an Investor. Until recently, the problems of the investor were compounded. Widely varying estimates emanated from officials in Washington concerning, for instance, the amount of curtailment in residential non-defense building activity for 1942. Decisions of individual investors had to be based on more than the customary amount of guessing. Much of that guessing can now be eliminated and preparations for a complete war economy made.
A stock market no Jess selective than before is a reasonable prospect, in the opinion of many observers. There is still a great deal of transition in prospect. The amount of war spending in the United States in relation to Great Britain ar.d Germany is still small compared with national income. Fully 50e< to 60c; instead of lCCc to 15',; of this country’s national income must be devoted to war expenditures if the proportions of a full-fledged belligerent are to be achieved.
That means that some of the investment trusts that recently were disinclined to buy “war babies” probably will have to reconsider. They hardly can afford to shop exclusively for peacetime investments knowing that further substantial deflation in peacetime activities is in prospect Some of the peacetime manufac-I turers that are not equipped to shift to defense | work may experience a deflation that will exceed even the 1932 experience.
' Heavier taxation is bound tn disturb confidence But “confidence” in the strictest mean-■ing of tnc word is not essential to bullish stock market movements The thing that is absorbing many stock market operators and long term investors is when will something of the spirit that has moved British and Berlin markets put in an appprarance in the United States. It is not primarily “confidence” that has been moving the British and Berlin markets higher, but its very antithesis Lack of confidence in cash, at least relative to tangible property and equities, has been an influence tending to produce higher stock prices in those markets
London’s stock market has been moving up ■modestly during the past year even m the face [ or a clearly defined downtrend in average cor-» porate earnings. In Berlin and conquered Am- sterdam the fixing of maximum dividends has not prevailed to check stock It is obvious, then, that fear cash can be a factor tending stock price even in the face
i	mgs or limited dividends
markct advance? for the worth of to produce higher of sagging earn-
The investor in the United States has beer. , between hay and grass as regards the degiee . to which he is influenced by emotions He has hoped fervently for a foundation of confidence I upon which to base market commitments and ' his fears have not been so strong as to compel a rush out of cash and into equities This I twilight zone has been a severe handicap for the (stock maiket As one or the other influences . tend to predominate thinking, however, th” effect should be to brace stock prices
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.