Purely Gossip: A daily column of comment in Wall Street Heard on the Street Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 24, 1942;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
A daily column of comment in Wall Street
Heard on the Street-
Boston Fund portfolio changes in February and March included the purchase of 2.500 shares of Greyhound, bringing 12.500 and 7.000 shares There were 900 shares of disposed of during this
La.*t years full
• * Despite the ha* been buving of such prtfrrred Goodvear and IT S Rubber points above the lows of circles believe that present dividend
tne total now held to of Fan American Air V S Rubber preferred period, leaving 1.100
•	• • Traders said that one of the pieces of domestic news which helped to depress yesterday’s market was the report that President Roosevelt's coming message would include a proposal that profits be limited by imposing an excess profits* tax of 99* <• on all earnings in excess of 6% on a company’s capitalization
*	" • There has been some mild buying of Container Corp stock, which on a basis of 1941 dividends yields ovot 12rf. on the belief that with shipments tunning at »n annual rate of close to $60 million, there will be a sufficient gain in profits after taxes to maintain « substantial dividend wore $46,714,000 surrounding rubber there vestment Goodrich, about 10 Financial rates on the’-e pietorreds will be maintained thia yeai * • • Traders said that the long list ot new »ows did not cause much discussion a.* the Stieet has long since gotten used to the long down trend and most operators expect it to continue until the wai news improves
shipments conditions
*omc instocks as all selling the year
low
ChrjHlrr Up 10 Point* From Low—
While many stocks are penetrating nexx gwund for 2942 Chrysler is about 10 points above its 1942 lovx and i* only a couple of points under the top ot the year Rallying tendencies m the .mares have been motivated in part by the cusiodgment ol pait ol a icputedly substantial short interest but it is also ielt in some circles thaL the cunent prices art reasonable m icia-tion to the prospective’ earnings of the corporation Net profits of the big automobile conc’i.n last year xvere $9 22 a shatt in comparison v ith $8 69 iii 1940, with dividends last year aggregating $6 a share. Chrysler the second largest factor m the automobile industrx last year, re,-ported record sales ol $888 million of which 13% constated of war materials Obviously. the volume of xxar business ot the company in 1942 will be tremendously larger, one estimate placing its peak military productive activity at approximately’ $1 7 billion Such a rate would be nearly three times the average annual sales of the past five years it is difficult to project any estimates of what the company may show loi the current calender year m view of the tax uncertainties and the fact that the company has not yet reached the peak of its war production potentialities, hut it thought that sufficient earning*- pow er ran in grnci.itcd to m.uii-tamed i dividend ol sax $4 a shine in the opinion ol financial circles Last month the company distributed $2 a share as i onipared with previous disbursement of SI 50 Chrysler finished 1911 in a strong xx or king capital position, cash holdings and 1‘ S Treasury Tax notes having boon more than sufficient to cover its total current liabilities The company, however this year arranged to^ a $100 million bank credit to insure adequate working capital for its vast war production program It is believed that this borrowing was done more as a precautionary measure than because of actual need
est clue as to production rates At the same time some companies air switching from fixed price to rost-plus-fixed fee conti act* but the pci • centage of backlog (itselt a military secret! to which each type o! contract applies and when contract schedule* change, all of which has «'»n impact on earnings also cannot be told On top ol these difficulties comes the question of reoucing puces to the government as a result of volume production While this i«= becoming general throughout the industry, it doesn t affec*t all companies alike and depends to a great extent on how far along a compani is in an individi.al contract Some concern* are well along on models in xxhich the hues’ have been ironed out and thex know juct hoxx their costs are shaping up Others have gotten the initial bugs out ot radical new plane* and are about to reach full nrodut non stride and realize a drop in production costs which can only be guessed at Still others arc winding up production ot models with which thex have had considerable experience and are about to start in production of new ndvaru cd models on which all of the production k r.k* haven t been eliminated and which might change cost estimates In addition, there is the question of materials and equipment The industry as a whole is probablx ahead of its schedules but its productive capacity has grown faster than anticipated, another result of quantitx produc tion. and has outstripped supply or materials Hence, while ahead of schedule it isn t up tr» capacity, and this provides another uncertamtx for earnings outlook
Dh idend*—
Brokers were not surprised by the redurt'on m the Liggett & Myers dividend It had bc*»n foreshadou'ed by the cut in the American Tobacco and Reynolds lates The same t a ctors that brought the former reductions are more or less in force in ail three companies Nevertheless. it was regarded as another indication that 'here ate going to be many’ more dividend leductions as time passes At the same time brokers are warning clients not to he too sure that a number of stocks have not a.ready discounted such possibilities They also state that stocks began to decline some 20 months before net earnings and dividends began to slip It is stated that there always if some selling on dividend cuts but that in most instances there has born little Alling following the recent announcements In fact a few stocks evcntual’y have worked a trifle higher whore the reductions xx ere not ns large as had been anticipated
month* old which compares xxith 34 months to’ the longest boa; market on iecord If one counts Horn March. 1927 peaks slocks have been on the detensivr most of the t*me fnr 61 months and this compares with a 61-month defensive period from November 1909 to the re open ng of the Exchange in December 1911 The fol.ovmg table compares this hear marh't with nine previous pcrods of declining stork prices
B nr x:,.-kr:	r» I««n l >«•< nr ir
U1	m- ’h* Ind’is’-iKir
in 7	.	.	• _ .	s'--,
r»2‘i	.	■	**’*,
:*na
J«’h ............ ’•	40'
1 «K»“ ....	< _
1 O(if.	„ >
r ••<>-•	ii	:►*»'
. « • *?• du • •
“In our opinion, whether this
exceeds in duration the 1929-32 decline wi.l qo pend on the prospective duration of the war rather than on the details of pending tax legislation and the nature of price-fixing and an’*-inflation edict* If the war is going to last two or throe years longer obviously stocks a?c not worth what thej arc selling for If the war »s going tn end sometime within the next 12 months stocks probablv arc cheap ”
OLIVER J GlXGOLD.
J ’< ' Rjl
• n.
4
4
bear mark'
National Distiller*—
National L»i ’’Ilers in its iep<»r’ to? the hrs: quart it showed its cui’cnt irg.i.ar $2 dividend rate mote than <o\t”ed the net pi oht ol 33 cents a snuri (uinpur-ng with 3d cents a year ago This showing wa* much m spite of a heavy increase in tax*** to ox • r S9«H> 000 for the period Sales ot wlu.*kx continu'd to run at a high level If government exci* > taxes air increased act ot ding m plans to $6 a gallon from present late ot S4 the wnnsky distillers will be faced with n heavy additional bn den on working capital Hnwcvcr it is fell in some quarters that part ot this may be met bv giaduallv paring down the time given retail ciedit lines
Amt rtcan Telephone A Telc-to meet on Wednesday act on the dividend The Street has opinion on the prospect for main-n*du< tion of the payment Some be-diiectors will not cut the rate until after passage of the new tax.
American Telephone & Telegraph—
Directors of graph are scheduled May 20. to	'
a dividend tenance or hove that the if at all.	.
legislation .so that they xx ill bv better able to formulate txix accruals Others argue that inasmuch as taxes arc clearly going to bo stiff, there is little use m waiting Be that as it may, it is interesting that when and if a reduction of the $H dividend rate occurs it will be the first time that the American Telephone At Telegraph Co has ever cut its dividend The present company is an outgrowth of the American Bel! Telephone Co . having assumed its present title in 1900 Through 1905. the dividend rate was $7 50 and m 1906 it was raised to $8 In 1921. the rate was increased to $9 from $8.50 Since that time the $9 rate has been maintained, although it was not earned in some years in the depression thirties Altogether thus company and-its predecessors have paid dividends consistently and without reduction for 56 years Besides, the stockholders have received valuable rights, the last being on the $233,534,900 15-year convertible debentures xn July. 1941—rights top being 19-16 and low 17-32 Constant need for capital was met in past years mainly by sale of stock tnvariably at par Six offerings were made from 1901 to 1916 and subsequently one in each year 1921. 1922 1924, 1926. 1928 and 1930. usually one to five or six ratio Subscriptions to $218,952,000 convertible 4%% bonds in 1929 at rate of $100 for six shares represented in effect the issuance ot stock Value of these various subscription rights ranged from nearlv $3 to more than $6 per share rn the offerings of 1922-24 and 1926 while it was from over $11 to over $16 in 1928 The market value ran above $22 in 1930 and this surpassed the previous record for each rights of $18 in 1940 Bond subscription rights were given in 1929. with value range between $3 and $7. while the high of the 1941 convertible subscription rights was 1 9-16
Aircraft Manufacturer*—
Maiket analysts are finding it difficult to assess earnings prospects of aircraft manufacturers In addition to the tax uncertainties, military restrictions arc imposed on the publication of current delivery rates or any information which would give enemy agents the slight-
Kall Taxes—
Raihouds in bankruptcy generally have been tnought fairly free from federal income taxes Howvvei. cnmi’i.” have increased so sharply this year and so much of the back interest tin.-been cleared up that the road* m bankiuptcx have bet n !orc< d to make provision for ledv’u income taxes in current earnings None of these roads on the other hand, has anx vxorrv as to excess profits taxes In addition to a hign volume of freight revenue, .most of the roads report mor.tn-tu-month improvement in passenger business
American Airline*—
Street hears that of the 93 769 shares of American Airlines. Inc, offered to a banking group early in March by Aviation Corp 50,000 shares actually weie disposed of The group had an option on tn* 13.000 odd remaining but did not oxer use the option in view ol unfavorable ma i Ket t eac tion to the airmail pay rate situation As a result. Aviation Corp still owns 143,769 shares cd American Airlines common out of th< 193.769 shares acquired last July-through the conversion of $2,422,112 of maturing debentures The stuck is being held in escrow by Jesse Jones because or laws which do not allow aviation manufacturing interests to hold a conti oiling interest tn an airline. Aviation Corp is entitled to receive whatever dividends American may declare but cannot vote the stock
V •	•
American Chain A' Cable-
While shipments ot American Chain & Cable Co.. Inc , are understood to be running ahead of those of last year, increased taxes are expected to bring some reduction rn net earnings. Nevertheless, it is expected that e&tmngs vul be sufficient to warrant continuation of dividends at the current rate In 1941, the company had consolidated net income of $3,791,065, equal to $3 54 per share on the common stock after paying $280,136 dividends on the $5 preferred Common and preferred dividend payments for 1941 aggregated $2,259,140 Last year, the company paid 40 cents a common share for each ot the first tnree quarters, followed by a final dividend of 80 cents in the fourth quarter, making $2 for the entire year Common dividends this year are running ahead of those declared at corresponding dates last year Common payments of 50 cents have been declared tor each of the two quarters, or at the annual rate of $2 Bulk of the company’s business is now connected directly or indirectly with war work but. unlike many other companies its products are equally applicable to peace or war needs Hence the company has had a minimum of conversion problems No radical change in manufacturing methods were necessary and that there is practically a capacity demand for its products whicn will undoubtedly continue for the duration.
* * •
An Old Bear Market—
"This bear market has grey hairs and wrinkles and it soon may be walking on a crutch.” said W. E. Hutton & Co. who went on Lo say “that reckoning from the Septemoer. 1939, tops (peak of the boomlet after the beginning of the warj, the bear market now is 31
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.