Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 9, 1943;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 13
Abreast of the Market
In a widespread selling wave, stocks yesterday declined broadly. The averages penetrated the August lows which, at that time, marked the end of the summer decline. Sales of 2.340,180 shares were the largest since May 10. While stocks closed about the lows in most instances, many of the pivotal issues were steadier at these low prices in the final hour and reflected some supporting buying.
Brokers reported that unlike other declines this year, there was no large amount of investment-scale buying to meet the selling. This xs ascribed tn the confusion among investors on the possible effect of an early peace on the American economy. Thus, investors are cautious.
Technically, the stock market is stronger today than at any time this year, according to brokers, with many traders having smaller totals of long stocks open on their accounts than m a long time There was not much short selling on the decline because the downward sweep of stocks did not give much opportunity for those traders who wished to sell stocks short to take such positions under current restrictions
While pivotal stocks were down from 1 to 4 points, some of the special issues broke even more, particularly American Distilling which broke more than 10 points on comparatively heavy selling.
Among the weaker stocks were Atchison. Southern Pacific. Commonwealth & Southern pfd . Electric FowerTfe Light preferreds. C & O. Louisville & Nashville. U. S. Rubber, du
Font. Western Union. Schenley. J. I. Case and Pcpsi-Cola.	-
By falling decisively through the August lows of 134 00 and 33 69 the Dow-Jones industrial and railroad averages, under the Dow theory, confirmed as a decline of intermediate proportions the movement since mid-July. As far as can bo determined no bear-market signal was given, although this might be the start of a bear market. As most readers know, such a signal would require, first a completed intermediate decline, second a partial retracement, and then a movement to further new lows.
The reason for not considering the latest action as a signal of primary importance 19 that the July-August decline m the averages was not of sufficient length to be regarded as a completed mtci mediate movement. Such a reaction is generally expected to laM three weeks to three months, although those limits are not absolute. In the present case, th« first decline to August 2 lasted only two weeks in the industrials, and only one week in the rails. It is true the latter went 02 lower in mid-August. but that could hardly be regarded as a real extension of the reaction.
As to the future significance of yesterday’s break-through, it is well to remember that William Peter Hamilton, most famous exponent of the Dow theory, once said that "broad conclusions are valueless on the daily fluctua-. tion and deceptive on the secondary move-i ment. . . Last July 14, with the industrials at 145 30 and the rails at 37 SS. it was stated here, in a comment on now highs j.ist ' achieved by both averages, that the market , was getting "perhaps a httle bit crowded with j nouveaux bulls ” If prices go down a few | more days, it will probably become equally i crowded with pessimists.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.