Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Apr 10, 1943;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 11	-----.	.	----------------------
Abreast of the Market
In a turnover of 2,521,410 shares, making it the second largest session of the year, stocks yesterday underwent the largest break this year. The industrial average lost 4.30 points, closing at 131.22. The railroads at 33.59 were off 1.71 and the utilities at 18.21 were down .77. Wall Street commentators mentioned the President's anti-inflationary order as a factor in the decline. The market, how> ever, was technically ripe for such a decline, which many believed was long overdue.
The market uncovered numerous stop orders from investors and traders who wanted to protect some of the paper profits they had-accumuiated in recent months. As usual. Coo, many potential buyers moved their buying orders lower, although some bought stocks and helped to stem the wide profit-taking and investment liquidation. The tape ran behind (an unusual occurrence these days) In the final hour. "	.
Declines were widespread and embraced every division of the list with breaks of 3 points or more in such stocks as National Steel, Atchison, Allied Chemical and Loew’s and a larger number of issues dropped 2 or more points. It was apparent that some of the so-called "inflation” stocks, or those representing assets “under the ground,” were under pressure. Further, the special issues which had been kiting in recent sessions lost severely on the decline. In spite of the break there were 13 new 1943 highs.
* * •
In some of the recent sessions out of the 1.238 issues listed more than. 1.000 have sold.
►What stocks are left behind in this busy parade? Mostly preferred stocks. In one recent session, out of about 250 issues which failed to open, 200 were preferred stocks, most of them representing small capitalizations. On the same day, the untraded common stocks included Coca-Cola International, quoted 740 bid and none offered. Mahoning Coal 257 bid and offered at 330; Eastman Kodak preferred, 181 to 185, Pittsburgh Fort Wayne common 155 to 175. and preferred 178 to 185 and Vulcan Detinning preferred 138*4 bid and none offered.
• « •
_ The stock market declined yesterday presumably because of President Roosevelt's antiinflation edict. The decline probably came because the market had shown signs of tiredness for several sessions^and as the sophisticated would put it "there were more sellers than buyers.” There has been a lot of buying of stocks of course, on the “inflation” idea. Most of these stocks include issues which have their assets "in the ground." As a matter of fact, there are only a few of the thousands who have bought stocks for cash in the past year who have assembled their portfolios on an inflation-hedge basis. Financial -circles believe that "inflation” buying has been comparatively small during the recent advance. Theafc observers place well at the head of the list of reasons that stocks have been bought, the search for capital appreciation or search for income. The record funds seeking investment are sufficient to take care of Government loans and still have plenty to buy favored stocks.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.