Abreast of the Market
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 28, 1946;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 12
MARKET DIARY
Stocks suffered a severe sinking spell yesterday and the industrial aver* age declined 5-95 closing at 191.04. It was the widest break in this average since February 25. Volume of 1,790.000 shares was the largest since May 29. The decline took leading stocks down 1 to 8 points. At one time duPont which ended down 7. was off more than 10 points. The drop affected all departments and thin markets accelerated breaks in railroad stocks as well as industrials.
Brokers said the market has been acting tired for some time and that uncertainties here and abroad have impaired confidence. As one trader put it: ’There is too much interference with the law of supply and demand. The tug of war between labor and business is obviously retarding production and the edge of the much discussed boom is obviously being worn away—when and if it comes along ”
There were 270 new lows, longest list this year and the breadth of the market was indicated by 1.059 different issues appearing on the tape. The weight of the decline was evidenced by 942 stocks declining and 51 advancing; 66 were unchanged.
• * •
Two differing interpretations are possible under the Dow theory of yesterday’s decline in the Dow-Jones industrial and railroad averages below the July 23 levels at which the rurrent downward movement had previously halted. Unfortunately the stock market is not an exact science, and there are times when students of the Dow theory disagree as to the exact significance of a given movement. On the other hand, it is fortunate that in this particular case’the question might be settled quite soon.
One of the interpretations is that the decline is merely an extension of the secondary downtrend which began from the highs of , late May and mid-June. shown on the accom-i panying chart. The other is that yesterday’s break is a bear market signal. The question is technical and depends on the exact nature of .the rally which lasted from late July to midAugust. It must be remembered that under 1 the Dow theory a major trend is made up of secondary movements The June-July decline undoubtedly was of secondary proportions If , the rally to mtd-August was likewise a secondary. then yesterday's break signifies a primary downtrend.
The difficulty is that the rally was just barely big enough to be called a secondary under accepted definitions In addition, it is necessary, sometimes, to make up one’s mind as to such matters as much by what the pattern looks like as by strict mathematical criteria. A glance at the chart will show that the decline since mid-August looks very much like a mere continuation of the June-July descent. If. on the other hand, the July-August advance had gone past the minor tops made on the little rally early in July, the whole pattern since late May would look more like thice separate movements—one down one up and a third one down—having primary significance when taken together
The possibility that the matter will be settled soon lies in the fact that the lows made last February by the Dow-Jones averages unquestionably represent a critical point of major significance Since the railroad average has just bioken decisively through that low. which was 60.52. the only remaining question is whether the industrial average will hold above its corresponding figure, which was 186.02 That is only five points under last night’s close. If the industrial average stops short of that level and persists m not breaking it, Dow theory students will regard such action as significantly hopeful.
Heard on the Street—
Brokers who are bullish on Montgomery i VX ard say that if sales reach a billion dollars this yea: the company* profits should amount
TIM4.		Mm.	Fr*. TlMtr. MM			
hu* <r*4r4	14W	•30	•M	•M*	021	•7?
Advaatw*	SI	223	CM	•3	23S	CM
Ueettae» ..	.	•43	•13	23»	*24	430	234
	M	ia«	its	M	JM	177
New hKH. 1M4	3	4	«	•	a	4
New kew-». 1M4	T99	44	3*	143	S3	13
DOW-JOKES CLOSIK4i AVERAGES
L*M	1*43	1H4
latfMtHafo . 191.04—173JI2-+ .3* 147.12 + .XS
—XJM &&-M— -2S	40.72 + .IM
4. UMUi ■ .... 3O.44—1.14 3X.4O .M 2S.2Z—
to approximately $S a share. On this condition. a minimum of $3 in dividends in 1946 would appear reasonable. The company has declared dividends of $2 a share in each of the past seven years. •	•	• A
London commentator declared: "Although the present system of exchange restrictions severely limits dealings between the Don-don Stock ’Exchange and Wall Street, there is a sentimental connection between the two centers. Nor could the British business man or British investor be indifferent to a major setback in the United States.’
•	* • Financial people estimate International Salt may show about 44 a share net in 1946.
•	• • Some brokers believe Owens-Illinois
Glass will disburse dividends of at least S3 50 a share this year, against $2 paid m the preceding year. • • • There is a strong conservative sentiment among brokers and investors at the moment. Brokers are inclined to go slow m recommending new purchases until some of the present doubts and fears are dissipated. * • * Apparently there is evidence of giv mg weight to unfavorable factors in the situations, rather than reflecting favorable matters, including substantia] improvement in some firms’ earnings and increased dividends • • • Bulls are already talking of the possibility of a record crop of year-end dividends •	•	•
In view of the growing interest in South African gold mining, as indicated by the recent formation of the $20 million Anglo-Transvaal Corp., the 1946 London edition of Sturzenegger’s “The Rand Gold Mmes’’ is expected to have special demand here. It is the 16th annual ^dition. and provides details of production, development, and financial results of individual firms • • • Film Daily reports that a compromise between American moving picture producers and Norwegian exhibitors has born reached The latter reiusod to pay more than 25', rental, opposing the 45rf sought by thr Americans American films are now divided into four categories under the compromise plan with rentals from 40s for A pictures. 35s for B. 30*^ for C and 25S for D • * • In item on Hajoca Corp, in this column on Tuesday, it should have read that the subscription pncc for the new issue of common is $25 a share, not $20.
• • •
Market Views—	.
Discussing the Borden Co Sam Smith of Bache Co said that net income this jeai "may approat h $6 a share’ He pointed out that the company has a strong financial position and ‘ consequents in vi^vx of the promising profits prospects^ the 50-rcnt quarterly dividend max be increased further or supplemented bx a substantial extra" • ■ * Hettle-man A- Co has reviewed tnc General Public Utilities Corp • • • An analysis of Consolidated Edison has ben made by Josephthal &-Co • • • Discussing the recent decline in slot ks J R Williston & Co asserted "It is our view that the decline, which conceixabix could carry further, is a temporary rather than a permanent phase and that the present xvaxr of pessimism will be supplemented by a stronger wave of optimism that will ultimately result in higher levels, for xv ell-situated equities than have been reached thus far” 9 ' * L O Hooper of W. E Hutton & Co. said. "The immediate picture is overwhelmingly good so far as earnings and business volume are ron< ernod Whethe* the intermediate outlook is as good as the long-range outlook is a matter on which there is debate To sustain a bo^m industry needs a lot of new capital. Can this be supplied in sufficient volume and fast enough in x icvv of present investment market conditions” How long will it take for OTA ceilings tn succumb to the law of supply and demand? In short, hovx long will the non-t ecurrent part of present abnormal earnings in so-called con-
sumption industries last? Certainly some in-| definite part of the current earnings of textiles, retail luxury amusement and distill-| ing company earnings is non-rccurrent. It is I the task of the market to guess how long such ; earnings will last. That is quite a task and it , is one which allows plenty of room for the operation of passing psychological influences." • • • Norman Funk of E F. Hutton & Co : "It is probable that the market is still feeling ! thr effects of investment congestion and the disagreeable international situation ’’
• • •
American Chain A Cable Co.. Inc.—
Thr recently issued report of American Chain & Cat»ie Qo . Inc for the first six months of 2946 revealed net sales of $17,374,724 against $33 275 937 in the like period of 1945 and net profit at $704,554 compared with $1.311.312 In considering these results, it should be noted that during the first quarter of the year production was severely curtailed as a result of strikes in the company’s plants This is understood to have resulted* in a sizeable loss m the period. Production rose considerablv in the second quarter, and on the basis of present indications, and assuming the steel requirements are available, sales of the company for the full year should reach $40 million The companx will have the benefit of higher prices in the second half of the xear The company indicates that , •: has on hand a substantial backlog of unfilled orders.
Oliver J. GibGOLD
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.