Abreast of the Market: Stocks Break Sharply, Wiping Out Rally From September 26 Decline
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 4, 1955;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 23
Abreast of the Market
Stocks Break Sharply, Wiping Out Rallv From September 26 Decline
(ltsti inution*.
to new
Monsanto
President
had boon reached in the morning
during the tv
Tuesday last ueel
Frida x a figure
industrx
market is down from recent high>
enderi
pressure
compete
terdav s sell-off
r<>i earnings
offs. Pittsburgh A- Lake I.ti
binned for the purpose
I is nil lefinerv at Port
Inc . of South Norxvalk. Conn . Io broaden its
measurements
merests in the Alberta oil fields
offshoot
its holdings
post-war Canadian \ online and considcis it has
wakened
Hoxvex c’-
power facilities al the site
and Texas
The market-
England
Texas Corp
bottom of NS Si. but thr mils an
hair's breadth of then low of 151
Ittos barclv declined at all in Augus
well below their sununet bottom now
H 1955 results
rurrent vrar.
Pai -Cooked.
distribution
welling in Roval Ihib li
form a. an
there had brei
recentlx. rspri latlx
undoublrdlx made
Heard on the Street—
Atomic Instrument Co.
has acquit ed a
year following publication of the nine months
Utilities
American Natural
Electric
London sources
Monsanto—
The Lion Oil div mm o' Monsanto Chemical
lrimdad Leaseholds—
rtinid.id Leaseholds Ltd. (London)
sharp declines on few sales
Airplane snare
substantial orders recentlx
Coppers were undei pressuie
session
followed bx n railx
The industrial
Dt nows
aess.
The Industrial average at its close vester
expanded io mciea.se crude capacity to meet
towing demand in Canada for
Leaseholds' premier btanci of gasoline. Regent
ent response
Stindax
vesterd.w morning repoited hi
‘•refreshed
tivii ture chemical
neat New Orleans
mo-foot wharf, scheduled for completion in Jan-
uaix. will enable Mississippi River tankers and
tankers to take on
loads of liquid mitogen tertilizei High-capucity
according to Hilton H. Slavlon. prcsi-
broadened investment piogram
aluminum
cover all metals,
he announced
conium
that dividend dates for Metal Shares have
been shifted to bebtuaix.
. M estinghouse
November.
been awaided a
build six' big
St Joseph Dam on the Columbia Rivoi
viouslv,
build the first 10 of 2'
!7 genet atm s
ement becomes
be maintained.
confident that that level can
there s a possibility that the 10-cent quarterly
. . Managed
dividend tale will bo raised
Louis, lias changed the
I* undh.
of lls mutual funds to Metal
of one
name
debentuies.
mil ion additional
Tt midad Leaseholds
,»19.890 reported for
declines
Petroleum Coip for
wharf The Lion plant will.pioducc two forms
of foitilizet, anhydious
River Brand Ric
River Brand Rice Mills,
to $35,800,000 from $27,542,791 in fiscal 1951	-
understood to been approved by stockholders of both com-
have kept pace. Profit in the year ended last panies.
chairman of Lion. Col
Martin, have been added to
Martin
This net the Monsanto board of directors
of the Lion division
vice president
to around $1.90 a common share
will serve as president
with S3 03 a share earned in fiscal 1954.
rice and during the year,
Stocks on the New York Stock Ex-
change yesterday broke sharply for the second Monday in a row. As measured
bv tho Doxv-Joncs stock-price averages
they had scored xvhon they rallied last Tuesday and Wednesday from the shock
of President Eisenhoxver’s ill-
report Earnings for the
immonia (a gas which
been installed and aic operating.
counter) is believed to have
becomes liquid at high pressuiei, and aqua
ammonia, a solution of ammonia in xvatcr The
latter product can be shipped in conventional
ocean-going vessels and is readily adaptable
in the year ended July 31 to a new record close nwma
(over the to the export Hade. Shipment of anhydrous increased sales ammonia will be handled in specially-built anv
barges which ate operated on inland
Lion’s merger into Monsanto has
effective September 30. The former
also would constitute a lecoid and compare
in and also as a Monsanto
keeping with its record-setting performance in
the latest year. Paver Brand milled approxi- Warren Petroleum *	■	...	...	. Net profit Of Warren
mateiy five million hundredweight of rough
continued to mv the quarter ended September 30 at least
Among the equaled and mav have surpassed the $2,425,218, major improvements was completion of a new or SI 29 a share, earned in the like period a plant at Houston, and enlargement of drying year ago. according to James E. Allison, presi-During dent "Geneially speaking.” said Mr. Allison, fiscal 1955 actual production exceeded previous- ’'conditions m the overall petroleum industry There are indications of curb-
are improving
ly rated capacity of the firm’s facilities.	... .	.	..
River Brand Rice, one of America’s largest ing imports, inventories are lower and demand millers ayd a leading distributor of packaged is higner, which of course makes us /ipti-nee under tne trade names. River, Carolina, mistic.” For the fiscal year ended June 30,
he company reported a net income of $10 120'(9. or $5 36 a share against $6.930 112. or >5 25 a share, in previous fiscal vea*
Marten officials note that the firm substantially increased i’« citide oil i^seixcs diving the vein C'*u cle oil p* odut lion lose 21'. to 5.707.65U net bands fee a da.lv axetage of 15 637 bands from 1951 s dailx axeiage of 12 • <51. despite a reduction in the numbet of pto during davs in Texas During the xrat V\a»-■en drilled 116 wells net. of which b2 7 we»r completed as oil wells. 6 7 as gas wells and 26 6 as drv holes. Capital expcnditui es. which totaled $22 million during the year included increasing the company s pi dressing facilities at its Saunders and Monument N M . plants and the construction of a marine teiminal fot storage and distribution of LP-gas nt Pensacola. Fla The firm raised- its undeigiound storage facilities for LP-gas about 25rr during the year. Warren's management consolidated the company's outstanding term loans in the fiscal year just ended by’ negotiating a new’ loan of $50 million, pavable in instalments over 13 years
Market Views—
OPINION Mai tin Gilboit of Bathe Ar Go said “The thought ptcvajls that the oxei-all niajot uptiend is not in piocess of teversing itself”	Felix Juda of Suin’ A Go’s Los
Angeles ottu e said “It is uui be het the !i*»t will gtaduallv light itselt and that v.v will witness a resumption of spot in’.ued bliength ’ Said Walter Maynard of Sheaison Hamnnll A Co * Oils and merchandising issues seem to be in a good position to perfuim well between now and the xeai-cnd Institutional giadc shares fiom both gioups would seem to provide attiactive investment opportunities ” . . A J. Coitese of Coitesc Kupscnei A- Co “An event a tear off is too far away fo» the stocs market to discount Oxer the next few’ months, a much stronger influence than next years election wull be the probable flood of x ear-end dividend increases and extias ” . . . Edmund XV. Tabell of Walston 61 Co continues to advise lightening accounts on strength .	. Biadbuiv
K Thurlow of Osborne & Thurlow said “We conclude the recent bieak has marked not the end of the bull market but the beginning of another, and piobably the last phase of this one, in which the factor of confidence may be replaced by fear of inflation, while speculative situations will come to dominate the overall picture ” .	.A. M Kidder & Co said “It i\
clear the market will continue in its character as a market of stocks rather than one of broad interest ”	,
ANALYSIS Dcmpscy-Tegcler A- Co . Los Angeles, has an analysis of National Homes Corp. . Hnsch & Co s Review has items on American Can. American Cyiuiamid and Southern California Edison. . . . Mei rill Lynch Pierce. Fenner & Beane s Investot s Rcadci nas reviewed Philip Morris. Quaker Oats. J. C. .Penney, Storer Broadcasting, Mead Corp , Schick. Inc.. Chrysler and Aldrns. Inc.
Francis I duPont & Co lias an analysis of Sperry Rand Corp. .	. Pamphlets entitled
“Growth Through Life Insurance Stocks” and “Opportunities for Investors in the Midwest” have been published by A C. Allyn Ar Co’s Chicago office . . . Bache & Co. has a review of International Telephone & Telegraph Co. . . Oppenheimer, Vanden Broeck At Co , has briefs on -C. S. Steel. Chrysler, Magma Copper and Lockheed. . . Sutro Bros & Co has an appraisal of the Clcvelanri’Clitfs Iron Co . . H Hentz & Co. has a review oy Ohio OH. Harry D. Comer of Paine, Webber, Jackson Aw
Curtis in the fnri s Review discussed some stocks with 'good v.elds “ including American Brake Shoe. Amer.	’	’ *	* *
. . E F Hutton
l ood Machinery
Williston A Co
t bion s with emphasis on the “A”
n rl obax-cu and Atchison.
A. Co has an analysis of A ( Ik-iiik al Corp . J R. has a review of FiUilmmons
StOt k ki»jn.n h'j Olixlr J Gi.'gold
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.