Abreast of the Market: Stocks Break Sharply on News of President's ... EDITED BY OLIVER J. GINGOLD
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 27, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. 25
Abreast of the Market
Stocks Break Sharply on New > *»f Pre*»i<k*nt'*» Condition: Ticker 7 Minutes Late at Close
Earn* Ouvb> J co
0.
or 4
i
a total
31
o« four of
floor
components of :1m* Dow-Jone* averages avertable to gtun ground. They were General Foods Procter It Gamble, Commonwealth Edison and Pacific Gaa A Electm. each of which added a fractson.
Mo worse than irreguiar at the opening on the official statement that Mr Eisenhower was
progressing “well” following his “chill” of Monday evening* the list firmed steadily during morning trading It began to lose ground rapidly however when a promised bulletin on the President’s health became overdue after 1:30
Offerings became heavy enough short Is after 2 30 to force the tape three minutes behind floor transactions, but this flurry of sell mg orders was absorbed shortly before 3 ‘<m> p.m. and thereafter the tape was briefly late on the up side
When the news of the actual nature of V*-Eisenhower's illness became known. houevc. renewed pressure developed and became accelerated until the close. The “run-off” of lair quotations, which had not been printed <»n the tape when the market closed, kept the tape going until nearly 4:00 p m
Even when the tape isn’t late, it take? neatly five minutes to clean up the accumulation of trades unreported at the close The amount the tape is late at any time while trading i-under way is merely an estimate of the amount of time it takes to report the most prominent trades after they are executed.
Among the weakest stocks were Westing house Electric, down 4%. DuPont off 3. General Electric 2^*. International Paj»cr 4‘j. Douglas 61*. Zenith 6. American Cyanamid 2". and Gulf 0:1 7	*
On the Pacific Coast Stock Exchange tlw trading pace picked up and the market weal • ened after the afternoon report on President Eisenhower’s condition. Volume nn the WeM Coast trading marts amounted tn 236.121 shares, which actually was below Monday s total of 265.2K-1 shares However, there had been heavy trading Mondav tn Standard Oil of New Jersey rights
The gallery in the’San Francisco division of the Pacific Coast Exchange was filled during the last two hours of trading y^sierdav Television and newspaper photographers wen* busy This period, after the New York closing, generally is dull
Comparisons of some leading sfa wita the New York closing prices Alcoa off a point: Bethlehem Steel, off =<. Chrysler, unchanged from the New York close’ of 66	.
Boeing, up Douglas, off 1: Ford, off i’» General Motors, off : General Electric, oif *-* J U.S Steel, off %. and Westinghouse, unchanged from the 5R’4 in New York
Asked in New York who did the heavx* selling and who bought the stocks, one broker said the selling was largely professional, while the buying was largely from the public. In Wall Street parlance, of course, the professionals include not only brokers themselves, but habitual traders who try to make part or all of their living through stock market transactions.
This broker went on to explain that declining prices in the stock market in such situations do not come wholly from “selling.” but also from a lowering of bids by buyers. When the news of the President's brain occlusion came out. he said, the first response was a dropping of bids Thereafter, buying of stock came to a great extent from people who had previously placed orders to purchase specific stocks at set pricies below the then existing market levels	.
As for ahort selling, he said that there were really only two opportunities to do it The Stock Exchange, he noted, does not permit short selling except on an “uptick”-that is. when the price of the latest sale is higher than that of the Immediately preceding one.
The first opportunity came when the news tickers said the promised 1:30 bulletin would
be d^laved I’p to that point, the market had been firm and wfatie prices slid off anon after that there wmm a brief period nf indeeimon in which short selling might have been done
The second opportunity came »’’*•! George Alien, bead of the V S Information Agen< x staged the announcement would come soon and would not be “ternbly alarming Tins dr velopment brought about a small rail'
Foreign holders of Amenran <dot-k>. unabh to get the news or art on it quickly wei< among those caught as the market dropped he said As for todav's market he looks for price declines at the opening followed by a rally “and where it goes from there I don t knou *
In one of the smaller brokerage houses m customer’s man sa.d most of the activity wa« on previously placed orders “A xtwk might have run to S3 from in the last three da vs. so a gux puls an order in fo: h'<n k at .52 Hr got i* That a what most of the business in our office was He added. Whenever the mark*. starts moving fast up or riwr. our customers just dry up Thcx poll into their shells like snails and wait till the end We got most of our excitement here relaying the news about the President Io out customers as it came nut over the broad tape This nian saw no evidence of short selling
Merrill Lynch Pierre Fenner & Beane, the nation’s largest brokerage house, drvxx large crowds m its board rooms all over the country as the news came out A spokesman said that instead of bring half or three-quar- • ters empty as usual at the close, the board rooms were nearly full
There uas shouting for quotations, loud ringing o! phones and < rowding around the news tickers, the spokesman said
He added that those- who came in were mostly there to watch and weren’t necessarily c ustomers	’
“One thing we noticed. the spokesman said, “was that there were practically no short sellers ”
Despite the excitement in the board rooms, where the customers may vicu the market prices and the Dow-June’s nrus tickers projected on st rcens can observe before them an automatic board showing last price as well as high and low pn< es of many securities, and can huddle in booths with their “account executives” to make a purchase or a sale. 1 most of Merrill Lynch s business as usual went on over the phone
Heard on the Street------
Scullin Steel i American i this year is ex- ■ pected to double 1956 net of $636,430 equal to $1.68 a share . . Fm»te-Burt (over the countei » ’ should increase net this year to above $4 20 a share from S2 R0 m 1956. according to T H J Doan, president, who said that dividends this year were held to Si 40 a share, up from ' $1.35 in 1956. because the company had a | small amount of business to carry* over into 195R and a relatively poor outlook for addi- i tional business . The Mailman brothers, j New York and Holly*wood. Fla • businessmen, have increased their holdings of Diamond T ' Motor Car Co. stock through purchase of | shares formerly held by* Eureka Williams. The ■ transaction involved 102,000 shares and in- ; creased the Mailman holdings of the Chicago } truck manufacturer to more than 240.000 shares of the 421.259 outstanding
Market Views—
OPINION • Lawrence Lewis of Pershing t Co. said. “North American Axialion and Thinkol seem to be two issues in the defense i group which appear interesting at this time.” I . . . Walter Maynard of Shearson. Ham mill & ! Co. said. “On balance, it will probably* be' prudent for investors to beware of becoming over-enthusiastic in the event of further strength, and to concentrate purchases on issues which can be expected to benefit from increased armament activity and groups which wjll -be helped by an easing in interest rates and a strong bond market “	•
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.