The Market Plunge: Sharp New Stock Drop Spurs Worry on Plant And ... A WALL STREET JOURNAL News Roundup
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 29, 1962;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
The Market Plunge
Sharp New Stock Drop Spurs Worry on Plant AndConsumerSpending’
But Business Is Sound, Most Executives Say" Brokers Assess ’Panic’ Selling
A 21% Fall Since December
A Wall Street Joi rnal .X’rtrw Roundup
The stock market careened downward yesterday. leaving traders shaken and exhausted.
The Dow Jones industrial stock price average dropped 34.95 points, or 5 71r'I. to 576.93. The drop took place on volume so heavy that the stock price ticker wasn’t able to finish reporting floor transactions until 5:59 p.m., two hours and 29 minutes after the market closed This lag was the longest since the present tickers were installed in 1930.
The sharp price break and the volume ot trading activity also were reminiscent ot the late twenties and early thirties. The price decline was the biggest, in points, for any one day since Oct. 28, 1929, when’the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 38.33 points; the average was at a much lower level than today and the percentage drop was 12.81“%. In percentage terms, yesterday’s decline was the greatest since the average fell 31 89 points, or 6 54%. on Sept. 26, 1955, following news ot President Eisenhower’s heart attack. Yester-day.’s New York Stock Exchange trading volume—9,350.000 shares—was the highest since July 21, 1933,
Yesterday’s price drop put the industrial average 157.98 points, or 21.5%, below its high of 734.91 last Dec. 13. This is the greatest percentage drop in this average since one ot 23% in 1946, during the switch from war production to peacetime business, and in points it is the greatest decline since the crash of 1929-32. The industrial average dropped 182.48 points in the first stage of that crash, between Sept. 3 and Nov. 13 of 1929; the percentage drop was 47%.
Reactions to the Decline
These were some of the reactions <o yesterday’s price drop and some ot the characteristics of the decline:	,
Around the country, some industrialists said they wondered if they ought to cut back on capital expenditures in the light of the stock market decline, but many more asserted that as long as sales and earnings remain good, as they have so far, their spending plans won’t be affected.
In Washington, Chairman Heller of the President’s Council of Economic Advisers said the current outlook for the whole economy doesn’t provide grounds for the “disturbing correction” taking place in the stock market (see story on page 3). There were no Governmental plans to take any special action.
In Wall Street, the reaction of the brokers was expressed by one who said: “It looks like a panic now and how can you explain a panic?” Market analysts agreed generally that selling ot stocks has reached an emotional stage where the decline could continue for some time.
Flood ot Inquiries About Market
Board rooms of brokerage houses became crowded as the news of the extent of the decline spread. Dong after the usual market closing time, telephone lines to brokerage and newspaper offices were kept busy with inquiries for closing prices on individual stocks.
The buying and selling were said by brokers to tie ih small blocks, suggesting that both came from the general public rather than large institutional investors.	.
Margin calls by lenders, asking ■ customers who had borrowed for stock purchases to put up more money, were numerous. The sharp decline in prices cut the value of many securities put up as backing for stock-purchase loans. Some stocks were sold when the borrowers did not put up additional collateral, but most borrowers appeared to be putting up the additional funds required.
Specialists on the New York Stock Exchange, whose task it is to maintain a market in stocks assigned to them by buying for their own account when the public is selling, and selling when the public is buying, said they were having to buy stock and suffering some losses on paper as a result. But generally they Baid that these losses were small compared with their profits in recent years and that they had the resources to continue to perform their role.
Stop-loss orders, which are customer orders to sell when a stock falls below a specified price, were few, most brokers said, and had little influence on the course of prices. Such orders sometimes accelerate a decline.
Industrialists and Plant Spending
Among industrialists, Edward J. Hanley, chairman and president of Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., said the stock market drop probably will cut consumer spending “and it’s very likely to affect capital spending, particularly it' you have any financing in mind. If you have any doubts at all, you’re likely to drag your feet a little bit.”
Frank R. Denton, vice chairman of Mellon National Bank & Trust Co. in Pittsburgh, also said the market break-may cause some companies to defer oapital outlays.
But in Chicago, William Quinn, president ot the Chicago. Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific Railroad, said his company '’won’t get much concerned about our capital spending plans unless business starts to fall off." He added: In and of itself, a declining stock market wouldn t affect our capital spending.”
In Philadelphia. Robert G. Dunlop, president of Sun Oil Co., said the decline probably won’t have much effect on the company’s capital spending because Sun Oil’s outlays are keyed to internally generated funds. “It's too soon to tell” whether the stock drop will hurt sales and earnings, he stated.
Wayne A. Johnston, president of the Illinois Central Railroad, agreed. “While the ups and downs of the stock market do affect all of us personally, I can’t see that it would have much effect on capital spending plans,” he said in Chicago. “Most of our capital funds for 1962 are already committed, anyway.”
“I’m not an economist,” said J. D. Wright, chairman and chief executive officer of Thomp-Pleaee Turn to Page IX, Column 1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
The Market Plunge: Stocks’ Drop Spurs Worry About Plant Spending
M Loeb, partner m E F Hutton & Co said it resulted from "overpricing of sto< ks Stock price movements tend to gather momentum When prices rise people think thev will go still higher and they buy. When prices drop, people think they will go still lower and they sell
Harry Kahn, partner in charge of research for Bache & Co., said. “The market is unraveling the speculative excesses of lhe past three or four years where anticipations of values far exceeded the realization of earnings and sales growth "
Several brokers stressed the feeling that panic selling was under way. One was John J Smith, partner in Fahnestock & Co
"Up to now he said 'vou could have explained the decline with a lot of reasons Adjustment to lower earnings, some foreign selling and so forth We tell customers that manv stocks now offer good value but there s no response There s no sign of a bottom to the decline, and in a panic you can t tell what will happen '
Market “Gotten Out of Hand**
Logan Stirling, research partner of Eastman Dillon. Union Securities t Co., said. ' The market just seems to have gotten out of hand and has reached the panic stage. All reason calls for some smart trading that would produce a rally. But there's little chance of a rally tomorrow (Tuesday) with a holiday coming along Wednesday and the uncertainties traders always feel about news that might come over a holiday."
And Miron Nacmanie of J. R Williston & Beane, chimed in with a statement that "this seems to me to have been panic selling today There's no business news to substantiate such a break in the stock market. I see no prospect of an early turnabout ''
Early afternoon activity in New York brokerage houses' board rooms vancd Dining the noon hour only one customer sat in the visitors' chairs at H Hentz & Co's 16th floor board room At one point a public address system announcement said. "The tape is 35 minutes late and stocks are trading on the floor above their lows " This brought a cheer from the four rows of customers' men busily handling incoming phone calls
Later in the afternoon board rooms showed more activity. It was stand* ng room only at Merrill Lynch. Pierce, Fenner & Smith with spectators lined up three or four deep in the .customers' gallery there. One customer said. "All the experts claimed Friday was the low. Now everything is down today—don't ask me why." Other brokerage houses also had bigger customer turnouts in the hours immedlately after lunch.
Most customers interviewed said they were "holding fast’! rather than selling. "You've got to be ready to expect thi worst as well as the good." said- retired butcher Ralph D'Avanzo from the Bronx. "I'm holding on because there's no ilae in selling.”
But some persons said they were sorry they hadn't sold out days ago. "I'm not selling but I should have sold at first,” said a retired importer watching the board at Bache & Co. "Now I’m waiting for an upturn.” "If I sell* I'll simply lose money.” added Demas Grivas, a Bache customer who said he is tn the investment business
No customers among those Interviewed reported doing any buying in -recent days. "We can call 10 customers for sell orders and get them." complained Frederic Farah, assistant manager at Bache & Co.’s main Wall Street board room. "But we can't get a buy order for anything."
Steel makers' recent attempt to raise prices and White House pressure against it get the blame for most of the market drop from some investors and brokers. "That dispute triggered this whole thing off." said Bache's Mr. Farah "Whether or not It was already coming in the same proportions is guesswork. Some stocks were terribly high and sooner or later there had to be a correction.”
“There's been too much Investigating and fighting (of business) by the Administration."
From Fir*t Page son Ramo Wooldridge. Inc in Cleveland, "but I	people who have taken a 3CK-< or 35'r
loss in value are going to look twice before wiring any major purchases But Mr. Wright added that Thompson Ramo s outlook and "the general tone of business ' are excellent, and “the fact that the market is down of itself should have no effect on business planning " Thompson Ramo makes automobile and airplane parts and is in the electronics industry.
In St. Louis, George K Hoblitzelle. vice president of General Steel Industries Inc . said the drop will have "no direct effect ' on his company, a manufacturer of heavv duty castings railroad cars. But he said it might be a problem tor companies negotiating acquisitions Involving exchanges of stock
Frank Armour. Jr . president of H J Heinz Co., said in Pittsburgh he doubts the drop anil depress the food business and Heinz has no plans to cut its spending. “The way consumers have been spending on autos and appliances, we know they have money.” he asserted. “I don't think it's reaching the panic stages."
Walter R. Bimson, chairman of Valley National Bank. Phoenix, and president of Arizona Bank Corp., a holding company, said: "I think business is doing reasonably well, and this is an underlying strength for the market. I don't suppose this (the drop) will have too much effect on currently good retail sales unless lhe fear arising out of uncertainty over business' future spreads."
- Howard I. Young, president of American Zinc. Lead & Smelting Co., said American Zinc is “limiting capital spending to only that which ia absolutely necessary" until the situation becomes clearer.
In Government circles in Washington the feeling was that there is little that can be done to combat the stock market drop One possibility mentioned was the lowering of margin requirements, by means of which the Federal Reserve Board fixes how much a buyer of a stock can borrow on it. The margin at present is 70%. whleh means 30% of the purchase price can be borrowed.
However, officials were reluctant to urge this or any other action for fear of contributing to panic rkther than reducing it. These officials reason that some Investors who so far have held on to their stocks might reason things must be really bad if the Government is forced to act. Officials also argue that economic indicators other than the market are strong and reassuring.
Both banka and brokerage houses kept forces on overtime last night figuring the status of their loans on stocks.
Margin Calls Going Out
In the past week or so. as securities’ market values have declined, banks have been notifying many borrowers to put up more collateral in order to maintain minimum margin requirements. Many such ‘'margin calls” have gone out to brokerage firms which pledge securities as backing for bank loans for Buch purposes as financing their own stock purchases. their customers* stock purchases and their underwriting new Issues. Calls for additional collateral also have been going to individual borrowers; individuals often borrow from banks directly to finance stock purchases, or may pledge stocks for "non-purpose" loans, those not covered by margin rules that are made on the condition that the money isn't used for-'fqrther stock purchases.
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.'s "Street loan” department, which handles securities Ioans, last, night had a staff of some 25 persons working late to prepare notifications for additional margin. Evans G. Morgan, vice president, said that though the number of calls going out has been increasing, borrowers were apparently having little difficulty meeting the calls. Some brokers, however, reported selling stock pledged as collateral on loans they had made.	.
Marine Midland Trust Co. is another bank whose Street loan department has been working late nightly to figure the credit status of borrowers* accounts. After the slide in market values in last Friday's trading, the bank dispatched some 30 notifications for additional margin to individual borrowers; an official of the bank estimated that perhaps double that number would be sent out. after yesterday’s sharper market break.
Many Requests on AT&T Stock
Brokers said a large portion of the margin requests they were sending out were on American Telephone 4 Telegraph Co. stock. They explained a lot of calls are going out to holders of this stock who bought additional shares sold by the company in an offering which closed more than a year ago, on April 14. 1961. The offer allowed holders to buy one additional share for $86 for every 20 shares previously held. Under securities laws and regulations, buyers of stock on such offerings through rights are exempt from the usual margin rule to the extent - that they can put up only 25% cash margin instead of 70%. On $86, 25% is not quite $22. whibh compares -with a decline of more than 35 points in the price of the stock from this year’s high of 136% to last night's close ot 100%. Whether such a decline would exhaust a customer's margin would depend on any other stocks in his account and the margin position on the whole account.
In Wall Street there was unusual unanimity on the sources of the buying and selling; the consensus was that small traders dominated the market on both sides. As evidence, brokers cited that a very large portion of the heavy volume of trading was in the form of 100-share lots rather than big lots which would represent orders by large individual investors or pension funds. Luaien O. Hooper ot W. E. Hutton A Co. said, “Our orders from Institutions were themselves ot a retail nature. That is, a fund which might ordinarily give us an order to buy 5,000 shares gave us a 1,000-share order."
Irwin Guttag of Kaufman, Alsberg & Co. said: "We had little buyers and little sellers— millions of them.” However, an official of one firm whose members act as specialists on 30 stocks said “there was a lot of good buying at the end of .the day, from large investors and funds."
Roy Tuckbreiter, chairman of Continental Casualty Co., which invests in securities the premiums on insurance it sells, said in Chicago that “institutions, such as banks, insurance companies and investment trusts, definitely are not selling.” He added that Continental in the past week alone bought high-grade investmentquality common stocks "in the millions" of dollars.
Bache & Co., a brokerage firm with wide foreign connections, reported quite heavy selling of U.S. stocks from Hong Kong and also more selling than buying from Europe. On the other hand, the New York office of Swiss Bank Corp, reported “no undue Swiss selling.”
On the causes of the break in prices, Gerald
said Mr Grivas "And what is this going to do to the Federal budget' Last year I paid more than $3,000 in taxes this year I might not make so much and where is the Government going to get its money*’ Bv raising taxes**"
One Francis I duPont & Co customer offered a solution for the market downturn "The SEC should order companies to begin a dividend parade — that would stop it ' said John O Connell an office worker for a steamship company He said he didn't favor reducing margin requirements to SO*: - "Too inflationary." he explained. Others both investors and brokers were also lukewarm about margin changes
Brokerage house officials said they weren’t executing a great number of stop-loss orders “We simply don't have many on the books." said a Francis I duPont official "It's not the kind of thing we encourage because it can hurt as much as it can help an investor.” A Bache broker said his firm was discouraging people from placing such orders and all customers interviewed at five brokerage houses said they had no stop-loss orders on the books.
Customer reaction is mainly one of bewilderment. brokerage men say "A man calls up and asks why AT&T is off five points." says Mr. Farah "They want to know if something Is wrong with the country, is it Wall Street, is it politics'’ They're not angry, just scared. Thev can't understand what is happening "
Specialists Trying to Keep Liquid
Robert Jacobson of Benjamin Jacobson & Sons (specialists in such stocks as United Aircraft. U.S. Gypsum and United Air Lines among some 12 securities) says, "Our books aren't heavy with stop-loss orders." Asked if lhe depressed, active market was creating financial problems for specialists. Mr. Jacobson replied: "We try to keep as liquid as possible."
Another specialist, reached at the New York Stock Exchange Luncheon Club shortly after the market closed, seemed rather breathless about the market he*d just gone through. He specializes in electronic and space age stocks. As to the financial shape specialists may be in after the recent market declines, he said: “Most specialists are okay. They've had a lot of milk and honey the last couple years. Some of their profits have been taken away recently, of course."
Still another specialist complains: "The specialists aren't faring well. It's a very difficult market for any dealer. The specialist la forced to acquire stock from a steady stream ot shares coming in at declining prices. The specialist has losses he can't Work out ot in this kind of market. He is hurt by it." What does a specialist do if he runs out of funds? This specialist explained that, under the Federal Reserve law. they' may seek financial aid.-Jsut such aid is “infrequently; uped.”
Heavy Purchases to Support Market
John T. Phelan. Sr., senior partner of Nash & Co., when asked if his specialist firm has been buying heavily to support the market for the 19 securities it represents, said, "We certainly have."
Mr. Phelan acknowledged that his firm has received a good many stop-loss orders from brokers, but that the number is "nowhere near" what it was in some past periods, notably at a time in 1961 when the New York Stock Exchange had to remove stop-orders because they threatened to create a dangerous situation. "They add to the existing situation." he said, “but they of themselves aren’t a problem.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.