May Retail Sales Fell 1% From April; Personal Income Climbed to Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jun 13, 1962;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 3	.	.
May Retail Sales Fell 1% From April;
Personal Income Climbed to Record
Nonfarni
Hiirh- Mortfiratre Interest Isaid he expects lo,‘er stock prices ~	r->	i sorne effect, both psychological!
Rates
Declined Further
Jobs Set	ProbabLv came too late in the month to in-
‘	*	*	• j fluence consumer spending very much. But he
~ ~	~	’	i ’would have
-----	both psychologically and actually ’ on consumer buying ’ It isn t serious, but jt uould 4iave some effect * he said.
Fears that Wall Street’s troubles might crimp spending by both businessmen and consumers prompted the Administration to make an earlier-than-planned announcement of its forthcoming tax cut proposals for 1963 though a tax reform recommendation had been in the works for some time
Sharp!} rising personal income* eaiher this spring helped fuel the record retail sale* pace in March and April After dipping in Januarv along with many other indicators the annual rate of incomes rose by $3.2 billion in February. $2.6 billion in March and $3 billion in April.
Factory Payrolls Steady
The further nse of only $1.1 billion in the May rate, the Commerce Department said, was due to relative stability in manufacturing payrolls. Wages and salaries paid in manufacturing came to an annual rate of $94.6 billion in May. a $100 million nse. far less than the $1 6 billion nse in Apnl. “A strong pickup in payrolls in the automotive industry and a smaller rise in those of fabricated metal producers offset declines in primary metals, food, textiles, apparel and leather.” the department said.
The chief increases in other incomes in May occurred among employes of state and local governments and workers in service industries.
The Commerce Department’s tallies of total personal incomes, which include salaries of white collar workers in manufacturing firms, are closely related to Labor Department measurements of earnings by blue collar factory workers only.
Nonfarni Employment Rose
The Labor Department, detailing an earlier broad report, said nonfarm employment rose by 285,000 to a mid-May record of 55.097,000, topping the previous mid-May mark of 54,400,000 set in 1960; the gain was about 60,000 more than is usually expected at this time of year.
Although the Department’s report said the employment increase was at a somewhat slower pace than in recent months, Seymour Wolfbein, Deputy Assistant Labor Secretary, hailed the gain as significant. He noted the better-than-seasona] gain occurred despite falling employment in the steel industry: the mid-May job total in the primary metals sector was down by 16.000, to a total of 1,206,200, reflecting curtailed steel production
Mr. Wolfbein called particular attention to the fact that employment among durable goods manufacturers, the sector hardest hit by the last recession, rose in mid-May by 54,000. to a total of 9,478,000; the usual expectation is for no change at* this time of year. The strength in this category, the official * the auto industry.
Mr. Wolfbein said it was the drop in steel employment auto industry employment, that car were still working off steel stockpiles earlier in the year.
Total Manufacturing Employment
Total manufacturing employment May rose to 16.664.000, an increase of about 33,000 from the previous month: the gain in the durable goods sector was partly offset by a decline in employment among non-
Bm a Wall Strict Joi rx al. ma ft R'jjai irr WiRMTNr.TON — Retail sales turned downward in May for the first time in five months, the Government reported
The preliminary estimate of a 1*7 decline in seasonally adjusted volume from April’s record was one of a senes of new business Indicators published yesterday. The other new economic measurements:
A rise in personal incomes in May to a record seasonally adjusted annual rate of $440 billion, up $1-1 billion from the April rate. The May increase was less than the $3 billion gain in April, and was the smallest rise in four months.
Signs of better-than-seasona! gains in employment in May.
Evidence that home mortgage interest rates declined further in May, reflecting plentiful supplies of housing credit. The Federal Housing Administration reported the average price paid for its insured mortgages by investors on the secondary, or resale, market rose for the fourth straight month; higher prices reduce the buyer’s interest yield.
A small decline in pre-tax corporate profits during the first three months of 1962 from the record $52.4 billion annual rate of the previous three months.
Prediction Upheld
The mixed pattern of these Indicators appeared to bear out a news conference forecast bv Commerce Secretary Hodges that the nation wouldn’t reach “full economic activity” this year.
But the Commerce Secretary said current economic statistics still point to “good business” during 1962, and he declared he was pleased with President Kennedy’s promise of a proposal to cut corporate and individual income taxes effective Jan. 1. He said Federal tax burdens are “discouraging” to business investment, the lack of which he blamed for the economy’s failure to rise as fast as expected this year.
The Commerce Department said seasonally adjusted retail sales totaled less than $19.5 billion in May, down 1% from April’s record of $19 6 billion. The drop was the first since last December.	•
Officials said the preliminary figures, which could be revised later, pointed to a decline in seasonally adjusted auto sales from the high April volume. This was cited as the main reason for a 4% drop in total durable goods sales to a May level of $6.1 billion. Sales of nondurable goods in contrast, lose 1% to $13.3 billion.
Economic Strong Point
Retail sales this spring have been regarded by economists as one of the economy’s chief strong points. Some Federal analysts have* suggested a continued rise in retail volume could prompt manufacturers to step up their investments in new productive facilities. While capital outlays by business are expected to increase 8% in 1962 from last year, Government officials think < bigger increase is needed to spur economic growth.	.
Mr. Hodges, asked if the May decline in retail sales were related to last month’s sharp stock market drop, said the stock price decline
said, came In
apparent, from and the rise in makers built up
In mid-
durable goads producers. However, manufacturing employment is still seme 200.000 jobs \hnrt of its pre-recession high, officials said
Construction employment failed to show its usual seasonal gam tn mid-May: the total of 2.723.000 was only 141.000 above that of the previous month and the normal nse for this time of year is some 175.000.
Although the average factory work week in mid-May' rose one-tenth of an hour, to a total of 40 5 hours the gain was less- than was looked for at this time of year, as a result, the seasonally adjusted work week fell to 40 6 hours in mid-May from 40 8 hours the month before
Officials said, however that the unadjusted hour.* total for mid-Mav i* the highest for the month since 1955 tying the 40 5 hours of midbig buildup of 116-day strike had an effe< t too' the work
again
offset equip-
before another
factory
May 1959 when theie was a steel inventories prior to the that vear The steel industry on the hours total this vear week in the primary metals industry fell to 40 3 hours from 41 hours in mid-April, ’ reflating reduced steel output
This sizable drop was only partly by an inc rease in the transportation _ . ment industry’ work week to 42 4 hours in mid-May from 41.R hours the month Mr. Wolfbein remarked that this was indication of high auto sales
Overtime Hours Rise
Average w*eekly overtime hours of workers in mid-May rose two-tenths of an hour, to a total of 2.8 hours; officials said this was the highest amount since mid-May 1955. except for the like period in 1959 during the buildup before the steel strike. As a result, weekly paychecks of factory workers rose to a new record for any month--S97 20; this was 64 cents higher than the mid-Apnl total and 54 cents better than the former record set last December. Hourly pay also mounted to a record for any month —$2 40. up one cent from the previous mark set in mid-Januarv and equaled in mid-Apnl.
Mr. Wolfbein summed up the employment picture as “good ’’ In the first five months of 1962. he said, total employment has risen about 1.000.000 more than would be expected from seasonal influences, while nonfarm payroll jobs have increased about 900,000 more than seasonally, with almost half this gain In the manufacturing sector.
“The picture is not bad at all,” he declared.
At the end of May. the Labor Department reported total mid-May employment at a record for the month of 68.203,000. a more than seasonal gam of some 1.400.000 from the previous month’s total. Unemployment, however, continued to show only gradual reduction, falling just somewhat more than seasonally, to 3.719.000 from 3.946.000 in mid-April. The change nudged the seasonally adjusted rate of unemployment down to 5 4% of the labor force in mid-May from 5 5% the previous	*
Building Surge Seen
On another economic^ front, the Administration hopes a spring surge construction can be maintained with of low mortgage interest rates. Supplies of housing credit have been plentiful so far this year, due largely to mortgage purchases by banks seeking high earnings to meet increased interest rates they are paying on savings deposits.
The strong demand for mortgages by investors has been pushing upward the prices paid in the resale market for home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration. The FHA said the national average resale market price paid on June 1 rose to $97 20 per $100 of face value for a 25-year 5%% insured mortgage. This was a relatively big jump from
month
Kennedy in home the help
the May 1 average of $96.90. It brougtr the resale market price to a new high $-n( e last May s reduction to 5S<*> from 5	• in toe
formal interest ceiling on FHA mortgages
Resale market buyers traditions.pay less than face value for FHA moitgages m an effort to increase their mve*’" ent return above the official interest rate	A n>mg trend
of these prices mean* buyers are content to accept somewhat les- extra margin of return The average June 1 pru e of $97 20. for example, would produce a yield of 5 61*; on a 5,<r? mortgage paid off in 12 years This is down from the 5 65', yield produced by the May 1 average price and uell below lhe 5 70* f yield being received by setondary-market buyers late last summer
The Commerce Department only recentlv has finished collecting figures on corporate profits m Januarv February and March Of-ti< ials earlier had predicted that before-taxe* earning* probably uouldn t show much advance over the record annual rate of $52 4 billion reached in the fourth quarter of last vear But the published figure actually’ show* a slight decline in the first-quarter rate to $51 3 billion
The Commerce Department blamed the “drift ’ in first quarter earnings on Lower profit by auto makers, reflecting slow earlv-1962 sales which have since picked up On the other hand, the agency said first-quarter profits ot steel makers were swelled by orders from users fearing a mid-vear steel strike: evaporation of that threat since has pushed production lower.
Officials noted earnings of banks wefe down in lhe first quarter because of the Jan 1 increase permitted in interest rates paid on savings deposits.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.