Securities Firms Expect Unusual Surge In Trading When Markets Open ...
A WALL STREET JOURNAL News Roundup
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 25, 1963;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Securities Firms Expect Unusual Surge In Trading When Markets Open Tomorrow
Some Margin Calls Sent Out. But Number Is Not I^arge; Many Buying Orders Noted
A Wau. Street Jovrxal.	Rowtufup
Securities firms the-country over are bracing for an extraordinary volume of business when markets reopen tomorrow following today s national day of mourning for the late President Kennedy
Many of them have notified some of their customers who had bought stocks on < redit that if they don’t put up additional cash or other collateral their holdings will be sold In addition, they expect other customers to do some substantial selling m order to protect themselves against the unexpected.
But numerous firms also say that over the weekend they’ve received an unusually large number of orders to buy at the reduced pnces reached Friday or at somewhat lower pnces if stocks fall further.
Although some banks have called for more collateral, or margin, from investors to whom they have lent part of the purchase price of secunties, most brokers and bankers say the number of such margin calls isn’t large They say it is well below the number issued at the time of sharp price break in May 1962. when on the 28th of the month the Dow-Jones industrial average declined 34.95 points. However, they do warn that if stock prices decline further tomorrow, additional margin calls might have to be issued.
Friday afternoon stock prices broke sharply in the less than one-half hour between the first news of the Dallas tragedy and the closing of stock exchanges just before 2 10 pm EST. On the New York Stock Exchange the Dow-Jones industrials dropped 21.16 to close at 711 49. the worst loss for the average since the Black Monday break of May 28 last year.
Recovery Move Expected
Many brokers said they believed that any further decline beginning tomorrow morning will be followed by a recovery move in an early subsequent session, or even later on Tuesday A reason for their optimism: The professed readiness of certain institutional investors, such as mutual funds and insurance companies. to buy stocks at “bargain” pnces
In Washington, The Securities and Exchange Commission said it would watch the reopening of the stock markets closely and is prepared to recommend to President Johnson that the markets be closed if what the agency called “panic” selling develops.
There is an outside possibility the Government will act today to prevent the markets from reopening tomorrow, but that appears unlikely. The Government, it was stated, will step in only if “panic selling” makes trading “so uncontrolled that there’s a general disruption in the market,** an SEC official suggested. He declined to be more specific
But SEC staffers hope the “emotionalism” that led on Friday to what one called the “panic** will have subsided over the weekend and today.
Commission officials were In their offices over the weekend and will be there today attempting to assess “market conditions.’’ Major exchanges have been surveying their members “for an indication of the intentions of their customers" and the SEC is in direct contact with major over-the-counter securities houses, an SEC aide said.
Commodity Margin Calls
Some brokers expressed the view that although the market misfit rebound to cancel an initial sell-off, the likelihood was that prices on the Big Board, as measured by the Dow-Jones industrial average, would resume, a general downtrend in effect since late October Some investors in commodities also are being asked fop more margin and to the extent they may have to liquidate stocks to raise cash, the securities markets would be further weakened, some brokers warned.
A special factor that has been influencing stock prices in the past week was the suspension last Wednesday of two major stock and commodity brokerage firms from membership on the Big Board and other exchanges The suspensions came after a large credit buy-
er of commodity contacts fai'**d nearly $19 million in marg’n cal's ana a«k*-d for court protect!’*1 under Federal barnnJp*< « law -•
Sectin’if^ markets conducted o\er the counter a< tually over the telephone- %!«o came to an early halt Friday. The-se transactions include those in securities of Federal -♦ate and local governments mutual funds and mam corporation® The normal close for the -lock exchanges is 330pm and most other markets a half-hour later
Pnces of tax-exempt state and local governments held generally firm in last week ® trading Trading in Government and corporate bonds similarly ended the foreshortened week at firm to slightly higher pnces. No new’ corporate debt issues are scheduled for offenng this week, a factor that dealers say should tend to keep prices firm (See stones on page 13 I
1-ate Fnday afternoon, the Federal Reserve System and leaders of the New’ York financial community sought to h*ad off any panicky reaction to the assassination by issuing a special statement of reassurance there was “no need for special action in the financial markets ”
Cooperation From Abroad
Alfred Hayes, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, emphasized that the nation’s monetary authorities particularly were “confident” of the continued “c<x»pera-tion of foreign central banks ” Although he didn’t say so. this wras taken to mean that U S. and West European governments were prepared to collaborate to thw’art any speculation against the dollar in international foreign exchange and gold markets.
While all U S markets quickly closed after President Kennedy’s death, regular trading took place Saturday in foreign exchange and gold markets overseas In London, the center of such trading, the dollar came under only slight pressure Saturday. The price of the dollar in terms of the British pound and other foreign currencies held steady What strain against the dollar did appear took the form of a slight rise in the dollar price of gold on the London bullion market
In this country, many securities and commodities brokerage firms, especially “wire houses” with nationwide branch systems, brought in practically their entire staffs Saturday to clear up heaps of paper work, including margin computations, generated in Friday’s hectic and anguished last half-hour of trading: on the Big Board, about 2 2 million shares changed hands in the final half-hour, one-third the total volume of the shortened session. On Saturday many firms, besides bringing in accounting and clerical forces, had salesmen on tap to answer questions of worried customers as well as to accept orders Several firms also planned to be open today on a limited basis
The exchanges in closing early Friday had directed member firms to cancel all unfilled orders presented for execution that day. and this contributed to Saturday’s heavy order inflow as some customers requested reinstatement of prior orders, mainly to sell, brokers said. But a surprisingly large nun^er of in-
m the interim a!>n changed their nurds ab<>ur celling br< •««-•■* sai^
We were stamped with «e!h”g orders F’’’-dav afternoon but or Saturday buying order* (>u,r"tn «-e’l orders 2 *«» ! *aid V C WaNtor president of Wanton A O- New York-based * wire hou*r
N<i»man Freezing a partner tn the Chicago brokerage firm of Fr^ehhng &• Co attributed a rise m buying orders experienced by his firm < h’ef'.v to bargain hunter- wanting to ca-h in on Friday * market dec line It mav be too ear's to call it a trend but there s been quite a bit of cancellation of orders t»» ®el! at a specified price and a placement of orders to buv at below-market prices,” Mr Freehling said
In San Francisco John Witter, genera! operating partner of Dean Witter 4- Co said a poll of the firm s some 5A offices o\er the country showed that bv Saturday afternoon buvmg orders were "ierv mu< h greater than sell orders 5 to 1 in a few offices ” In New York howexer. Sxlvan C Coleman chairman of E F Hutton & Co indicated that though the firin was receiving “a steady inflow of buying orders from institutions and individuals ” he believed that spiling pressures would predominate in tomorrow s trading, at least initially
Bache & Co. a large nationwide securities firm based xn New Y’ork said in a statement it expected “when the market reopens that the emotionalism that characterized the hours since th*» tragic death of President Kennedy will have spent much of its force ” The firm said it hoped the three-dav “respite” from trading, including today’s shuttering of the exchanges, will have been “used by investors for a calm, considered assessment of their investment positions ”
Bache asserted the economy has been showing continuing strength and that a number of companies recently put out “excellent earnings reports” for the third quarter of 1963 “Fundamental factors which were so encouraging for business just a few short days ago will continue to be the motivation for higher security prices over the long term" the brokerage firm declared	-
Institutional Buyers Cited
Most brokers were looking also to institutional investors as a particular source of buying power in the market tomorrow -and there were signs that officials of a number of financial institutions had similar thoughts.
Said Herbert Ft Anderson, president of Group Securities. Inc . New York-based sponsor of mutual funds with over $215 million in assets’ “Nothing has happened that changes the basic outlook of the economy We 1! be buyers Tuesday without question ”
In Los Angeles, Coleman Morton, president of Investment Co of America and associated funds with combined assets of about $550 million. agreed “it is hard to see any long-term (adverse! economic consequences” of the assassination “We’ll be watching for a chance to buy stocks when the market opens •• he said Mr. Morton added he expected a “shortlived sell-off but a fast recovery ” In Chicago, B N Everett, vice president and chief financial officer of the Continental group of insurance companies, said Continental similarly planned “to take a look at the market after it opens, and if prices are off significantly, we'll buy ”
Selected American Shares. Inc., a $110 million mutual fund, already went into the market as buyer Friday afternoon for these reasons. according to E P. Rubin, president He said that before the close the fund bought about $400,000 of stock that it figures it got 3^ to 4rr cheaper than it would have cost earlier in the day.
Tn Philadelphia, W Union Nelson, president of Delaware Fund. Inc . also said he would be prepared to buy when the markets resume trading tomorrow’ “I would be prepared to buy at a price.” he said “I don’t think the fundamentals are basically changed Next year looks like a good year " Leo Selin-ger. general manager of Civil Service Employes Insurance Co , based in San Francisco, said the firm’s board of directors at a regular meeting Saturday authorized him to buy more stocks “and Tuesday I’m going to do it ” Some Firms to Go Slowly
A number of institutional investors, to be sure, have no plans to jump into the market right awAy J C Beall, vice president for investments of Nationwide Corp Insurance Companies, said. “I’m sure there’ll be no effort on our part for the short term to come into the market to take advantage of any bargain pnces. We w’ill go right along wnth the programs that we had laid out before. W’ith no immediate changes ” In Los Angeles, a spokes, man for Occidental Life Insurance Co. said the company rescinded all outstanding buying and selling orders when it got word of the shooting and has adopted “a wait-and-see policy at least for some time after the market opens again Tuesday ”
Although Friday’s plunge In stock prices caused some brokerage firms to issue margin calls, most brokers said they didn’t regard the development as being anywhere near alarming proportions.
Walston & Co , for example, on Saturday issued about 240 margin calls for $200,000 through its 50 branches located east of the Rockies, a volume which Mr. Walston termed “insignificant ” Right after the May 1962 mar
ket break, he said the same offices issued approximately margin calls
Paine. Webber. Jackson & Curtis, another nationwide securities firm, said margin calls issued through its New York head office over the weekend ran about l'r of its total margin account®, compared wnth as much as 5rr during the May 1962 break, an official in New Y’ork said Paine-Webber s margin department in Ijos Angeles, however said its margin calls had jumped about 50'r from a normal flow of 10 tu 15 a week “If we have a marked drop of L9 points on Tuesday, u’e’re going to be reallv in trouble and so are a lot of other houses.” said Jeff Davenport in the firm s Los Angeles office
Some firms, on the other hand, reported little or no margin-call actnitv San Franciscos S< hw’abacher & Co said its margin accounts are “in good shape.” largely because of a buildup in stoc k values during a protracted rise in market prices dating from mid-summer. A Pittsburgh broker similarly said his firm’s margin calls so far have been “so few’, they aren't worth mentioning.”
Exchange Staffs Busy
Major stock exchanges, meantime, w’pre girding for heavy trading tomorrow’ American Stock Exchange officials worked through the weekend checking, among other things, the financial status of the exchange’s 160-odd specialists. key members charged w’ith maintaining orderly markets m assigned stocks The Big Board assigned to the trading floor for tomorrow’’® opening an additional 100 or so employes who normally perform clerical and other duties elsewhere in the exchange building
An SEC official said the agency would have people at the New Y’ork Exchange at the opening tomorrow The SEC under the Securities Exchange Act can. “with the approval of the President, summarily suspend all trading” on ®tock exchanges for a period of 90 days or le«® Under that law’, the Government also < ould order all over-the-counter trading halted and. under the Investment Company Act. it c ould halt redemptions of mutual fund shares. It has never used any of these sweeping powers
The exchanges closed voluntarily early Friday afternoon, although the SEC was informed of the action. Shortly after the exchanges stopped trading, the SEC requested but didn’t formally order that over-the-counter trading stop. The request wall remain in effect today.
The New Y’ork Stock Exchange said yesterday that settlement dates for transactions made Tuesday through Fnday. Nov 19 to 22, shall be set one business day later because of the close 6f the exchange today. For example, transactions of Wednesday, Nov. 20. will be settled this Wednesday
Stock exchange rules require in a regularway cash transaction that payment be made for securities in return for delivery of the certificates on the fourth business day following the purchase day
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.