What's News: Business and Finance World-Wide Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); May 28, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal pg. 1
What’s News
Business and Finance
STOCK PRICES scored dramatic gains, with the Dow Jones industrial average soaring a record 32.04 points, to 663.20. The surge, offsetting about half the retreat of the prior six sessions, was ascribed to “bargain hunting” and some abatement of the recent gloomy market psychology-. Volume of 17,460,000 shares was the second-highest this year.
(Story on Page 29)
• * •
Freight-rate rises of 6% proposed by the nation’s railroads for next Tuesday were suspended by the ICC pending an investigation. But the agency said it would allow a general interim boost of up to 5$c on 10 days’ notice, subject to refund to shippers if the ICC later rejects the increase.
(Story on Page 3)
• « •
Two big brokerage houses, Francis I. duPont and Blair & Co., are discussing a consolidation. Combination of the Big Board member firms would represent one of Wall Street’s largest mergers. Their combined capital is about $87 million.
(Story on Page 2)
* * *
The I.O.S. take-over planned by John M. King of King Resources received a setback when the SEC rejected his request for suspension of a 1967 SEC order. The order bars I.O.S., a large financial complex, from operating in the U.S.
(Story on Page 5)
* « «
Lockheed Aircraft was urged by Deputy Defense Secretary David Packard to “seek financial assistance from the banks and even through merger.” The Pentagon’s No. 2 man told a Senate panel the defense contractor will need such help in addition to Federal aid to get back on its feet. (Story on Page 2)
* * #
Wage-price legislation .giving the President authority to freeze salaries, rents and prices at mid-May levels will be pushed by key House Democrats. Committee hearings are expected late next month. With the Administration and Congressional Republicans likely to resist the plan, the fate of the bill may depend on support from unions. (Story on Page 3)
• • •
The decision of GM and Ford to end price discounts next fall on cars sold to fleet operators represents a gamble that any losses in volume will be offset by higher profits, Detroit analysts assert. Chrysler and American Motors apparently are keeping the discounts of as much as $200 a car, but the sources expect few volume buyers to switch to these companies.
(Story on Back Page)
• « ♦
Two former insurance officers were indicted on charges of mail fraud and securities violations. The indictment names Raymond E. Karlinsky and William H. Malone, former executives of State Fire & Casualty Co., a Miami insurer that is being liquidated.
(Story on Page 7)
Asarco and Kennecott expect serious production problems at copper smelting operations because of new air-pollution curbs adopted by some Western states. Asarco said it will have to allocate shipments starting June 1, and Kennecott asserted it will be forced to close-its Utah operations. (Story on Page 4)
* * *
Continued farm-price supports on wheat and feed grains for three years were cleared by the House Agriculture Committee. Accepting the Administration’s price-support compromise terms, the committee planned a final vote on the farm bill next week.
(Story on Page 22)
• • «
Westinghouse Electric said it will seek to raise prices where possible to offset increasing costs of materials and labor." With inflationary pressures stronger this year than last, the company is also seeking to trim expenses by substituting aluminum for copper and other such moves.
(Story on Page 8)
* • •
J. J. Newberry reported a $179,040 net loss for the first quarter, ended Anril 30, against a year-eariier profit of $712,954. Another large retailer, City Stores, posted a $1.4 million deficit, against a $12,000 year-ago loss. (Story on Page a)
• • •
' Royal Dutch-Shell said a subsidiary offered $116.6 million of cash for N.V. Billiton, a Dutch mining company.
(Story on Page S)
• •. •
Markets—
Stocks — Volume 17,460,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials 663.20, up 32.04; transportation 139.75, up 8.22; utilities 100.04, up 2.20.
Bonds-Dow Jones 40 bonds 67.63, off 0.08. Commodities — Dow Jones futures index 134.49, up 0.50; spot index 141.89, up 0.06.
World-Wide
NATO URGED preliminary talks with Moscow on a mutual reduction of forces.
In a communique ending a two-day meeting in Rome, the U.S. and its NATO allies said they are willing to meet with Soviet-bloc nations in a general conference on European security if progress can be made in exploratory talks. The communique said current talks on Berlin and Germany might be one form of such initial •'multilateral contacts.” It also suggested that a permanent agency might be set up for such contacts. A Communist-called rally was staged in central Rome to protest the NATO meeting.
The cautious NATO approach toward a European conference resulted from past opposition bp the U.S. to suggestions by Warsaw Pact nations for such a meeting.
West Germany's cabinet met to take stock of four months of secret talks with Moscow and decide its next move. Chancellor Brandt called in ministers to hear a report from a Bonn official who returned home after his 14th meeting in Moscow on a proposed nonaggression pact. Brandt said some progress has been made toward excluding any right of Soviet intervention in West Germany. Foreign Minister Walter Scheel said Bonn is on the verge of seeking a “modus vivendi with the other super-power.”
• • •
LAIRD HOPES to 'meet or beat’ currently scheduled withdrawal plans from Vietnam.
A Pentagon spokesman said the Defense Secretary has asked U.S. commanders m Vietnam if they can release more than 150,000 troops before the May 1, 1971, deadline set by President Nixon. In Saigon, South Vietnam and Cambodia announced agreement to restore diplomatic relations and said South Vietnamese would remain in Cambodia until the enemy is defeated. A Cambodian official reiterated that his government might ask U.S. forces to remain in Cambodia beyond the June 30 deadline —a request the U.S. has said it will deny.
A Nixon spokesman said he doesn't interpret Indonesian President Suharto’s call for removal of foreign forces from Cambodia to have been directed at the U.S.
American planes attacked antiaircraft guns in North Vietnam for the first time since the massive May 2-3 raids, the U.S. Command said. A communique said two F4 fighter-bombers struck at gun positions 100 miles north of the demilitarized zone after ground gunners had fired at an unarmed reconnaissance plane. Elsewhere, enemy gunners shot down two U.S. helicopters in Cambodia and two in South Vietnam, and a fifth crashed in Cambodia for undetermined reasons.
• • •
An extensive busing plan for North Carolina’s largest school district was overturned by a Federal appellate court, which gave tacit approval to the Administration’s controversial school-desegregation policies. The Fourth .Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, in a 4-2 decision, upheld a Justice Department contention that the busing plan for Charlotte-Mecklenburg schools was too extreme. A lower court was ordered to find a means of desegregation other than “cross-busing.”
# ♦ ♦
Lebanon decided to crack down on Arab guerrillas operating in the southern part of the country, but the cabinet delayed a decision on whether to ask for troops from Morocco and Tunisia to defend against Israeli attacks. The Lebanese army was told to enforce to the letter a Cairo agreement of last November that forbids Arab guerrillas to carry weapons in a Lebanese town or to fire across the border into Israel. Yesterday’s decision was apparently taken without consultation with the guerrillas.
An Israeli patrol entered southern Lebanon for the third day in a row in what Israel termed attempts to push the guerrillas farther back into Lebanon. Arab-Israeli fighting flared again on the Egyptian and Jordanian fronts. Officials in Tel Aviv said Israel and Egypt fotfght an artillery duel across the Suez Canal, followed by two Israeli air attacks. Jordan and Israel exchanged artillery fire.
* • *
Deletion of supersonic-transport funds was rejected again by the House. By a nonrecord vote of 86-102, the House turned down an attempt to strike $290 million for continued development of the SST from an appropriations measure for the Transportation Department for the year beginning July 1. Congress so far has appropriated $708 million for research and development of the SST, for which Boeing is prime contractor.
* * #
McCormack was praised by President Nixon, former President Johnson and long-time colleagues for his 42 years in Congress. The 78-year-old House Speaker, who is retiring at the end of this session, told a White House lunch he has faith in men “who want to he free under their own laws.” He said he has confidence “no matter how dark things look.”
• • •
An Apollo 13 review board said there is some indication that wiring insulation in an oxygen tank probably received major damage prior to the spacecraft’s launch April 11 from Cape Kennedy. The chairman of the group, in a status report, said, “It now appears that two thermal switches designed to protect the heaters in the tank from overheating may have failed.” An explosion tore away part of the craft’s service module April 13, causing the planned lunar landing to be abandoned.
• « •
Extremist youths roamed the Paris university quarter early today, burning cars and fighting riot police. The violence followed a government ban of an extreme leftist group. The outlawing ot the Maoist “Proletarian Left” was provoked, a government spokesman said, by the organization’s leaders calling for “revolt, violence and civil war.”
• • »
Ceylon’s ruling party was defeated by a coalition, and Prime Minister Senanayake was defeated in his home constituency, returns from the nation's parliamentary elections indicated. Mrs. Sirima Bandamaike, a former prime minister, was considered likely to head the new government. Her Communist-supported coalition has pledged widespread nationalization of the economy. '
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.