Surge in Securities: Rally in Bond Market Helps Push Stocks Up To ... By GARY PUTKA Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 4, 1982;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Surge in Securities
Rally in Bond Market Helps Push Stocks Up To Still Another High
Sign of Lower Interest Rates
And Relief Over Election Spur Purchases of Shares
Economic Problems Persist
By Gary Putka
Staff Reporter of The Wau. Sthfitt
NEW YORK—In a rush of post-election optimism, the bond market rose yesterday and helped push the usually more volatile stock market into a wild surge.
Bond prices rallied as investors became more convinced that, with the election out of the way, the Federal Reserve System will foster lower interest rates to aid the battered economy. Many economists predict that the Fed will cut the discount rate, the fee it charges on loans to banks and savings institutions, from the current 9lv%.
Moreover, some observers believe that the bond rally reflected investor relief that the election Tuesday wasn't a total rout of the Republicans. They say many investors had feared that huge Democratic gams in the House of Representatives might eventually lead to heavier federal spending on domestic programs, even bigger budget deficits and ultimately a resurgence of inflation.
A Rush to Buy
The bond rally, by seemingly foreshadowing lower interest rates, encouraged purchases of shares, which compete with fixed-income securities for the investor's dollar. In addition, stock-market participants were surprised when the market defied the many predictions of a post-election slump. No longer expecting an opportunity to buy stocks at lower prices, they poured funds into the equity market.
The result: The Dow Jones Industrial Average soared 43.41 points, the biggest one-day rise in history, and finished at 1065,49, easily topping the previous record close of 1051.70 set on Jan. 11, 1973. Yesterday’s volume was a huge 137 million shares (see story on Page 3).
"The stock market is rising because interest rates are falling, falling, falling," says Richard Gilder, the president of Gilder, Gagnon & Co., a New York brokerage house. “And the rates of interest are going lower still because they are so much above inflation. The stock and bond market rallies are for .real." .
A lot of investors have already chalked up some very real gains, too—even in the normally slower moving bond market. Burnette Rawson, a 69-year-oId urologist in Pear! River, N.Y., took the advice of his broker last June and bought $150,000 of corporate bonds. It turned out to be a sound prescription. The value of his bond portfolio soared to S183,000 as interest rates plunged between July and mid-October.
Socking It Away
But besides demonstrating how quickly some investors have made money in the bond market recently. Dr. Rawson has done something else of some significance. Deeply worried about the economy, he hasn’t spent any of his profits. He is keeping his money invested.
Dr. Rawson’s experience is a picture in miniature of the great bond-market rally this year. The gains have been huge: about $350 billion in paper profits m the past 13 months, with most of them scored in the upsurge since July.
But despite the impressive profits, the big rally m bonds has yielded few economic benefits to the ordinary American. Little of the increase is being spent. Most companies aren't using bond borrowings to build new plants and create new jobs, but rather they are retiring other debts and shoring up shaky balance sheets. And the interest rates on home mortgages and other loans to consumers are dropping with their usual agonizing slowness.
Yesterday’s Gains
After a short breather in late October, bond prices now have risen for five days in a row. Quotes on long-term Treasury issues have shot up about $50 for every $1,000 in face value in the past week. The Treasury's closely watched 14% bonds, due 2011, surged again yesterday and were up more than a point, or $10 for every $1,000 in face value.
Many bond-market watchers expect the rally to continue into 1983. But that sweet forecast has a sour side: Such predictions are based on glum predictions for a weak, only slowly recovering economy.
A strong bond market isn’t inconsistent with sluggish economic activity. On the contrary, bond prices, which move inversely to interest rates, thrive on a weak economy, which generally drives down the demand for credit and its cost—interest rates. This pattern has been followed in the current rally, which fed on one of the most serious postwar recessions, and in the 1973-74 rally, which also coincided with a bad economic slump.
But the bond market also has often served as a leading indicator of the economy; its rallies have often foreshadowed economic rebounds. That pattern isn’t a coincidence, either. Big rallies in bond prices build up wealth that eventually helps fuel spending; at the same time, falling interest rates encourage corporate and consumer borrowing and thus further spur spending.
However, many observers of the current rally believe that the economy, like, Dr. Rawson, isn’t responding in traditional fashion. They note that many sectors of the bond market have been strengthening for 13 months and that the current lag between the market bottom and an economic upturn is far longer than usual. And they fear that more time may be needed before the cur-Please Turn to Page 22. Column 3
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Continued From First Page rent rally bears its share of economic fruit.
“The response to the bond rally will happen a lot more slowly this time around,” says Lawrence Harris, a bond-portfolio manager for Investors Diversified Services in Minneapolis. "Corporations have built up an enormous amount of short-term debt that will need to be paid off before they can expand. And consumer loan rates haven’t come down as fast as other rates."
Adds David Jones, an economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a New York bond dealer: "We may not be setting the stage for recovery until late 1983. It will take a while for interest rates to come down to the level where buying and borrowing will stimulate the economy.”
Interest rates have declined considerably. of course. Since early July, when the bond market rally began its biggest move, yields on 30-year Treasury bonds have dropped about 3% percentage points to approximately 10%%. But most home-mortgage rates have come down only a couple of percentage points and remain at such high levels as to keep many potential home buyers out of the market.
Before a real economic recovery begins. Mr. Jones believes, interest rates will have to fall further. He estimates that mortgage rates, for instance, would have to drop to 10% from the current 15.9% average at sav-
ings and loan associations for a “significant" upturn in housing to begin.
However. Mr. Jones does predict that bond rates will continue dropping, into mid-1983. If that prediction is borne out. bondmarket profits would be piled on top of gains that already are histone.
In the 12 months ended Oct. 31. pnees of long-term Treasury issues rose about 29%. Add to that the 14% interest that bonds yielded on Oct. 31. 1981. and they have produced a total return of 43%. not counting reinvestment of interest payments. Over the same penod. bonds have easily outpaced the 21% return on the Standard & Poor's 500 common stocks (15% m capital gams plus 6% m dividends).
Strong Returns
Figures compiled by Salomon Brothers show that every sector of the market has performed remarkably well in the past year. The New York securities firm puts returns on top-rated 30-year corporate bonds, for example, at about 47% and those on 30-year municipals at about 33%. Neither includes interest reinvestment.
The rally has had its watershed events, such as the Aug. 17 prediction of lower interest rates by Henry Kaufman, the Salomon Brothers economist who had long forecast higher rates, and the recent, widespread belief that the Federal Reserve Board decided last month to let the money supply grow faster for a while. But perhaps the greatest stimulus has been the rapid, persistent deceleration of inflation.
"One reason I think the rally has a lot further to go is that bond rates are still very high in relation to inflation," says James J. Lowrey, who runs his own investment-banking firm in New York. The current 10%% yield on 30-year government bonds, for example, exceeds the rate increase tn consumer prices this year by six percentage points—a margin that hasn’t narrowed much from that a year ago.
Wage Gains Dwindle
But similar mathematics is working against consumer buying. The “real” cost of money to consumers—the financing costs minus the average percentage increases in wages—has actually been rising as pay gains have slowed, Mr. Lowrey believes. The result could be a delay in the consumer buying spree that has been widely looked for as the tonic the economy needs.
"Interest rates just aren’t low enough yet to get the economy moving,” Mr. Lowry says. “I don't think we’ll have an economic recovery of any strength until the prime rate drops below 10%.” Until the banks’ basic rate on corporate loans gets that low, he expects the rally in bonds to continue.
However, John Paulus, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley & Co., declares, “We’ve seen the major part of the rally in bonds.” Leon Cooperman, the chief of investment strategy at Goldman, Sachs & Co., agrees, and he has been urging the securities firm’s clients to move out of bonds and into stocks. Mr. Cooperman believes that little progress will be made in reducing federal budget deficits next year, and he sees that problem lessening the prospects for further major declines in inflation and interest rates.
Borrowing Bargains
From the corporate borrower’s perspective, Mr. Paulus believes, borrowing isn’t as expensive as it at first may seem. After deducting interest costs from taxes, corporations with a 46% tax rate are paying about one percentage point above the inflation rate to borrow in the bond market, he figures. That cost is in line with historical relationships.
The interest-rate declines have already unleashed a torrent of new debt offerings. In the three months ended Oct. 31, about 200 corporations raised_$19 billion through bond offerings, according to Securities Data Corp, of New York. That was up from $7 billion in the like period of 1981. The borrowing binge has slowed somewhat lately in anticipation of a $13 billion Treasury financing, which started yesterday.
“The decline in rates has been helpful, and we plan to take advantage of it to pay off some short-term debt we’ve built up.” says Charles Friley, an assistant treasurer at Phillips Petroleum. The oil company raised $300 million via a 30-year bond offering in October and will use the money to retire short-term debt.
Slow Rebound Seen
But Morgan Stanley’s Mr. Paulus believes that even if interest rates drop further, the current low rate of factory use and the need to refinance short-term debt will put off any increase in inflation-adjusted capital spending for about two years.
Moreover, consumer spending may be hard to stimulate, too.
"I think there’s a lot of fear out there among individuals,” says Martin Roenigk, the vice president for bond investments at Travelers Insurance Co. “We’ve had a very long time of rising unemployment. The consumer is concerned about whether he’ll have a job. Interest rates are still high enough to make him save, not spend. And there’s no longer the inflation pressure driving him to buy goods before prices go up.”
Mr. Roenigk believes that a slow economic recovery could keep the bond market going “well into next year," but he adds that he is a “little nervous" that the Federal Reserve's apparent switch on its money-supply management might rekindle inflation. Hope in Housing
The recently announced 23.7% increase in sales of new single-family homes in September, together with a 14.4% spurt in housing starts, has convinced some observers that consumers are buying again. But housing starts are still nearly 50% below prerecession rates, and this year’s new-home sales are expected to be off more than 14% from 1981 levels.
“I’m optimistic, but I’m not raving about the numbers," says Dean Crist, an analyst with the National Association of Home Builders. He says a recovery in housing may be lagging partly because of the slow drop in mortgage-interest rates.
Frank Crossen, the president of Centex Corp., a Dallas home builder, says new orders have picked up in recent weeks to a 7,-000-a-year annual rate; the company sold 5,600 units last year. But Centex doesn’t expect to top its sales record, 10,000 units in 1979, for some time.
“It’s going to take more than interest rates to get back to normal," he says. “To get back to a healthy housing market, we’ll need a healthy economy."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.