Surging Stocks: After Bulls' Stampede, Wall Street Wonders If the Run ...
Andrew, John;PAMELA SEBASTIAN Staff Reporters of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Aug 6, 1984;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 1
Surging Stocks
After Bulls’ Stampede,
Wall Street Wonders
If the Run Will Go On
Interest Rates and Inflation
Will Be 2 Major Factors;
Meaning of High Volume
Political Effects of the Rally
By .John Andrew And Pamela Sebastian St it fl Heiiortcrs of The Waij.StkhktJuvhnai.
NEW YORK—The bulls of August thundered back into the stock market, and Wall Street is wondering whether they can restage their rodeo of two years ago.
The explosive rally late last week is triggering hopes for a replay of the startling kickoff of August 1982, when stock prices surged out of the summer doldrums into one of the most powerful bull markets in history.
Buoyed by the current euphoria, many Wall-Streeters see parallels between now and then, and they predict that this rally will continue. However, many others view the wild surge of optimism as the only real similarity: they see substantial differences in the economic climate, and they advocate caution.
Of the various factors likely to determine the stock market's course over the next few weeks, the one that most sharply divides the two groups is their outlook for interest rates. Practically everyone agrees that the latest rally was set off by strength in the bond market early last week-in other words, by widespread expectations that long-term interest rates have peaked.
Divided View
The bullish group expects both long-term and short-term rates, which until very recently had been edging higher, to decline significantly. The more cautious group, on the other hand, believes long-term rates will resume their rise, and they note short-term rates haven't declined. In August 1982. in contrast, the stockmarket rally was preceded by a drop in short-term as well as in long-term rates.
The stock market is notorious for defying predictions, but several other factors are splitting investor opinion-and are likely to sway the market. Among them are these:
-Inflation. The market has found inspiration in reduced inflationary expectations. The bulls clearly expect the current low rate of inflation to continue. Warier observers have their doubts about that. And in any event, they note that though lower inflation is generally viewed as beneficial to the stock market, it could clobber the shares of companies that have borrowed heavily at current interest rates and can't increase product prices to cover their debt-service costs.
-Economic growth. In August 1982. the economy still was dropping toward the nadir of the recession. Now. the recovery is nearly 21 months old. and some investors in the stock market, which tries to anticipate future events, may soon start looking toward the next recession. Most forecasters currently believe that the economy is cooling off; some investors see that as promising lower interest rates, but others see it as threatening to put pressure on corporate profits, which now are riding high (see page 21.
-Institutional buying spree. Banks, pension funds, mutual funds and other institutional investors that manage other people's money bought heavily-just as they did two
Dow Jones Industrial Average
years ago and for the same reason. They hate to miss a big rally, a mistake that can cause anything from acute embarrassment to loss of their jobs. So. when the market starts surging, they fall under intense pressure to buy. even if they personally think that stocks may not be much of a bargain. As a result, the kind of record volume seen last Thursday and Friday not only indicates strong investor interest in the market but also actively stimulates it.
-Institutional cash holdings. Banks, insurance companies and other big players in the market have considerable cash to spend on stocks. However, their cash holdings aren't as big as they were two years ago.
-Small investors. Individuals helped sustain the August 1982 rally by following institutions into the market. Most analysts believe that they will repeat that performance again this month, but no one knows for sure.
At the moment, one thing is sure: This time around, the rally has a political dimension lacking even in a congressional election year. A bull market would bolster President Reagan's reelection campaign and help eclipse criticism of his weak points, such as the huge federal deficit. The other side of
Please Turn Io Pai/e G, Column 1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Surging Stocks: After Bulls’ Stampede, Wall Street Wonders Whether a Major Upturn Is Under Way
Biggest Previous One-Day Gains
AUGUST 17, 1982
Closing 831.24 +38.81
OCTOBER 6, 1982
Closing 944.26 +37.07
NOVEMBER 3, 1982
Closing 1065.49 +43.41
NOVEMBER 30, 1982
Closing 1039.28 +36.43
Continued From First Pa<ie the coin, however, is the fact that a market rally following the jump in the unemployment rate last month would help the Democrats push their argument that Reaganomics is good only for fat cats. Yesterday Robert Beckel. Walter Mondale's campaign manager, said on ABC-TV's “This Week with David Brinkley" that "Wall Street had a great week last week; Main Street didn't." I See story on page 3.1
Wall Street itself also has a lot at stake. Full-service securities firms have been under heavy competitive pressure from banks and discount brokers, and many of them have been losing money. Most large Wall Street firms desperately need a major rally to restore their profitability and to reaffirm their central position in the securities business.
As was true in August 1982, the rally last week was generally unexpected on Wall Street. Many traders and money managers had lost hope for a summer rally and were on vacation when the market began to surge. After dipping Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 5.30 on Tuesday and posted a more substantial gain of 19.33 on Wednesday. Nevertheless, the rally still looked to many observers like just another of the market's many short-lived bursts of the past few months-traders' rallies marked by relatively low volume.
Then, the rally suddenly looked a lot more impressive. On Thursday, the industrial average climbed 31.47 points, and trading on the New York Stock Exchange hit a record 172.8 million shares. On Friday, the average soared an additional 36.00 points on volume that again set a record-an enormous 236.5 million shares. Ending at 1202.08 Friday, the average still was well below its closing high, the 1287.20 reached last Nov. 29.
The huge trading volume and a surge in the number of advancing stocks made last week's rally exceptional even by the standards of August 1982. Unlike two years ago. when many institutions waited a few weeks to see whether the rally was genuine, there were few laggards this time. “The two missing ingredients for a major rally, breadth and volume, are here now," says Richard Eskle, vice president and technical analyst at Morgan Stanley & Co. Both factors, he adds, indicate that the market has considerable forward momentum.
More than a few observers, however, worry that it also has some aspects of a speculative bubble. On Friday, many other financial markets, including the London and Tokyo stock exchanges, began to climb sharply in large part because of the frenzy on Wall Street. Gold and silver prices also rose, and even some severely depressed commodity futures prices increased in sympathy.
"The hint that this is a speculative bubble is that some of the commodity futures are going up." says David M. Jones, senior vice president and economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. If investors are really buying stocks because they believe that inflation has stabilized and economic growth is slowing. he says, there isn't any rational reason for them to be bidding up commodity futures.
Traders Stunned
Traders.those closest to the center of the whirlwind, were stunned by the strength of the surge. Watching the advancing numbers on a stock-quote machine Friday afternoon, Robert Dewey, the managing director for equity trading at Donaldson. Lufkin &• Jenrette Securities Corp., remarked. "The ability of this market to follow through today with a 36-point gain on top of what we had earlier in the week and it being a Friday in August is just mind-boggling."
Swayed by the frantic buying by institutions. many market observers decided that the rally would have staying power. At Pru-dential-Bache Securities Inc., one of the most bearish firms on Wall Street. Greg
Interest rates had been falling for days but the one-day blow-out was triggered by Henry Kaufman, Salomon Brothers' influential economist, also known as Dr. Doom, who reversed his earlier gloomy forecasts.
More declines in interest rates and rumors of a cut in the Federal Reserve discount rate overcame worries about a correction in the stock market surge that began in August
Market bears, who had been predicting a stockprice downturn after Election Day, realized the market’s momentum was unstoppable and became buyers instead of sellers.
After a decline of 5% from early November, the bull market resumed, thanks to continuing interest-rate declines and expectations of a recovery in the economy, both good news for equities.
Smith, the director of research, said Friday morning that he wouldn't fight the tape. He recommended that short-term investors step back into the market-to a limited extent.
Robert Farrell, Merrill Lynch & Co.'s widely followed technical analyst, told clients Friday morning that the market was in an "unprecedented type of stampede." Mr. Farrell, who only the day before had said the rally might take the Dow to a peak near 1200. said the rally could last until October, with most of the gains occurring in the next three weeks.
Like many analysts. Mr. Farrell is reluctant to predict how far the Dow will rise before the rally stalls. Robert Stovall, the chief investment strategist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., admits that he has been wrong before but suggests that this year's high will be 1280 and next year's around 1470. Over the long term. Dean Witter is even more bullish. Many employees are currently wearing to work buttons reading. "5000 by 2000."
Many who consider the rally sustainable are market technicians, analysts who believe that historical patterns can be used to predict the market's course. John Mendelson, Dean Witter Reynolds’s technical analyst. finds parallels with the summer of 1982. They include a drop in long-term Treasury bond rates, a high level of institutional cash holdings, and more arcane commonalities such as a relatively high level of short selling by Big Board specialists. Short selling is a method of profiting from declining stock prices.
Many traders also think that the rally will last for some time.
"This thing isn't over. It's going to bring people back from vacation.” says Mr. Dewey of Donaldson Lufkin. He notes that some institutions still haven't stepped into the market because some of their top people were away when the rally began.
While no one dares to be a bear right now. some Wall Street firms remain cau-
Friday’s Hourly Volume In millions
tious. Mr. Smith of Prudential-Bache believes that the rally will last a couple of months at best, and his relatively pessimistic long-term view of the market remains unchanged. Similarly, Steve Einhorn, vice chairman of the investment-policy committee at Goldman. Sachs & Co., says the firm believes "the market will be uninspiring from current levels."
The principal reason Prudential-Bache, Goldman Sachs and others are cautious about the long-term outlook is their continued expectation of rising interest rates over the next 12 months. As a result, Mr. Einhorn says, "returns on debt instruments will remain more attractive than investors' return on stocks."
Economic Background
The contention that rates have peaked is based on two notions: that the economy is slowing and that inflation will remain low. And there is evidence to support those views. Last week, the Commerce Department reported that in June its index of leading economic indicators fell 0.9'4, an unexpectedly large drop that fueled the bondmarket rally. And most economists are lowering their inflation forecasts. Even Milton Friedman, whose predictions are higher than most, recently cut his forecast of fourth-quarter inflation to a range of 6% to 7'4 on an annual basis from the previous 7% to 9%.
Finally. Paul Volcker, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, prompted the financial markets to believe that rates had peaked when he recently suggested in congressional testimony that the Fed wouldn’t be tightening the growth of the money supply.
The stock market seems to have forgotten, however, that short-term interest rates haven’t come down at all and now are almost as high as long-term rates. According to many economists, the reason is that demand for short-term credit remains high— an indication that the economy may not be slowing as fast as people think. "If we don’t get a decline in short rates, the long rates will go up again." predicts Mr. Einhorn of Goldman Sachs.
Though most economists agree that inflation has been subdued at least until year-end. many disagree over how long it will stay low. Lawrence Chimerine, the chairman and chief economist at Chase Econometrics. thinks that recent government figures understate inflationary pressures. "The
;----------------------------—-----
drops in oil and food prices woi't continue, and the strong dollar is also holding inflation down. It's made the economy extremely competitive by holding down the prices of goods that compete with imports," he says.
If inflation remains low. the price-to-earnings ratio of stocks could jump substantially. Mr. Stovall of Dean Witter notes that stocks are currently trading at a P/E ratio of about 10, well below the post-World War II average of 14. But stocks of companies carrying a lot of debt could be hurt; they have borrowed heavily at high real interest rates but won't be able to increase prices. Airlines fall into this category, Mr. Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston notes.
Moreover, some analysts aren't sure that forecasts of slower growth are good for the stock market.
“Investors are ignoring some very valid fears about the economy," says Alfred E. Goldman, senior vice president at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc., a brokerage concern based in St. Louis. They include, he says, the possibility that the economic slowdown could turn into a recession, the huge trade deficit resulting from the strong dollar, and large federal budget deficit which may keep interest rates high.
"The flip side of lower economic growth is lower corporate profits,” notes Mr. Einhorn of Goldman Sachs. If corporate profits fall below investor expectations, stock prices will inevitably suffer, he states, noting that "experience shows that the market savages stocks of companies that turn in earnings below expectations."
Aside from the economy, two other factors affecting the continued strength of the rally are the probable mood of institutional and retail investors and the money they have to spend on stocks.
Institutional Cash
Institutional cash holdings are relatively high. The percentage of cash in institutional portfolios is variously estimated at 10'; to 15% of the total value, less than the 17% to 18'"< in August 1982. However, some analysts believe that institutions may have considerably more cash.
“I've heard about institutions with as much as 50% to 60';; of their assets in cash, and I talked with three Boston institutions recently whose cash positions were 40',;.. 48%. and 48%.” says Ralph Bloch, a technical analyst with Moseley. Hallgarten. Estabrook and Weeden Inc. in Chicago. Mr. Bloch believes that cash positions institutions have been reporting this year are understated because many firms have substantial holdings of short-term Treasury securities, which are excluded from the cash account "even though they amount to the same thing as cash."
Retail investors helped sustain the rally that began in August 1982 and that lifted the industrial average nearly 500 points over a period of 15 months. In the past 12 months, retail interest in the stock market has fallen significantly, contributing to lower trading volume and hurting brokerage-company earnings. Most market-watchers believe that the retail investor is ready to jump in again.
Some Pickup Noted
Although last week's buying was almost entirely by institutions. Pete DaPuzzo. the director of retail equity trading at Shear-son/Lehman American Express Inc., says retail buying on Friday “picked up considerably in the options market as well as in the over-the-counter market."
Last week's rally didn't bring only good news for Wall Street. Trading departments at some firms had been as bearish as their customers and had sold securities short for their firm's own account. "There are reports of major blood on the Street." said one trader Friday, referring to the short squeeze provoked by the rally.
Nevertheless. Wall Street has much to gain from a sustained rally, particularly the major wirehouses such as Merrill Lynch and E.F. Hutton & Co., which have been most affected by the drop in retail trading volume. Two weeks ago. Merrill Lynch posted a second quarter loss of $32.8 million and an operating loss of $90.8 million, the highest in its history. Last Friday, on a much more hopeful day for the securities industry. Merrill Lynch common stock soared over three points and was the second most actively traded Big Board issue.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.