Industrial Average Declines 77.42, But Some Signs of Stability ...
TIM METZ Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 23, 1987;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
i Industrial Average Declines 77.42, ; But Some Signs of Stability Appear
Bond Market Surges Again; Big Board Will Shorten Its Hours for Three Davs
;	By Tim Metz
« Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
NEW YORK—The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 77.42 points in continued heavy and volatile trading yesterday. But most stocks closed well above their lows amid signs that Wall Street may finally be reining in the runaway market.
Meanwhile, the bond market, the recipient of billions of dollars of fleeing equity capital, again exploded, with government bond prices advancing more than three points; the dollar firmed a bit against other major curencies; commodity trading settled slightly; and the Investment Company Institute announced that the nation’s money market funds got a net injection of $9.64 billion in the week ended Wednesday (see stories on pages 39, 41, 40 and 6).
After the close, the New York Stock Exchange announced that it will close at 2 p.m., two hours early, today, Monday and
Tuesday, to allow member firms’ back offices to reduce their mountainous paperwork backlogs. Traders hailed the decision. The Big Board’s chairman, John Phelan, said it was made against the background of a “stabilizing” market.
The fact that anyone could use the word ‘‘stabilizing’’ to describe a session in which the Dow Jones industrials traded in a range from minus 45 to minus 150 points was itself a comment on this extraordinary week. The average finished at 1950.43, down 3.8%. Big Board volume was 392,160,000 shares, compared with Wednesday’s 449,350,000.
The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, a broader price measure, fell 10.13, or 3.9%, to 248.25. New York Stock Exchange issues declining in price overwhelmed the gainers by 1,548 to 336. The American Stock Exchange index fell 4.5%, and the Nasdaq composite index of over-the-counter stocks dropped 4.4%.
Program Trading Curbed
Yesterday’s trading was difficult to analyze for clues to the market, as the Big Board continued to deter program traders by denying them access to its automated order delivery system for the third consecutive day.
One factor underlying the decline, traders said, was bearish sentiment among investors who were told yesterday that they must put more collateral in so-called margin accounts, which are 50% financed by loans from their brokers.
Thousands of investors got margin calls in yesterday’s mail that resulted from Monday’s 22.6% market crash, a Wall Street proxy solicitation executive said. ‘‘And thousands more will get them” today, he said. “That’s certain to generate pressure to sell.”
Brokers said much of the over-the-counter selling was by investors who were cashing out speculative OTC stocks to cover margin calls against larger Big Board blue chips in their investment portfolios.
The National Association of Securities Dealers, meanwhile, escalated efforts to keep traders from ducking sellers by "locking” quotes and refusing to answer their trading telephones. A message on traders’ terminals warned that Nasdaq was monitoring all bids and that market makers caught doing these things would be referred to the market surveillance committee for action. Reportedly "locked” markets were less of a problem yesterday than earlier in the week.
The main reason for the steep early decline yesterday, according to many traders, was an adjustment of stock prices in New York to reflect declines in U.S. issues traded earlier in the day in Europe.
Through much of yesterday, the discount of stock index futures prices below the underlying indexes was only a few points. When the discount is wide enough, stock index arbitrage traders normally would simultaneously buy those futures
Thursday’s Market
DJIA at 15 minute intervals
20401—---------------------
1860Ui-i-i.l i ; i I i i i l i.i i I i i t l.i u l.i,
NYSE volume on a half-hourly basis (In millions of shares)
Open 10	11	12	1	2	3	4
Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter
and sell a basket of stocks representing the index.
“It’s definitely calming down,” said Richard Sandor, who heads Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.’s futures operations and is based in Chicago.
Cautious Optimism
“Maybe the Big Board will let program traders back in” today, Mr. Sandor said. A Big Board spokesman said that decision was being made on a day-to-day basis and that he was “not confident” that the curbs would be relaxed by today.
Other sources said the firmer tone in stock index futures trading and the recovery of the industrial average from its early decline was reason for cautious optimism that the effects of Monday’s historic crash are beginning to ease.
Yesterday’s news background clearly helped, as Citibank during the morning touched off a round of quarter-point cuts in banks’ prime rates, to 9%. In addition, the New York Federal Reserve Bank confirmed that the Fed was injecting money into the banking system.
In releasing the weekly money market fund figures yesterday, Alfred P. Johnson, chief economist at the Investment Company Institute, said investors shifted billions of dollars from equity mutual funds to general-purpose and broker-dealer money funds. He said that indicates these investors “remain ready to re-enter stock funds should conditions warrant." The latest week’s surge lifted money fund assets as of Wednesday night to $256.84 billion, the institute said.
Tom Ryan, chief equities trader at Kidder Peabody & Co., said the coming three days run of shorter Big Board trading hours will ‘‘give us a better opportunity to process all transactions on a timely basis.” He said there have been delays of "minutes, hours, even overnight” lately in Iet-
Please Turn lo Page 9, Column 1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Stock Prices Tumble, But Signs of a Return Of Stability Are Seen
Continued From Page 3
ting customers know what the prices were in their trades.
Separately, the Toronto and Montreal stock exchanges also said they will close at 2 p.m. today, Monday and Tuesday to aid order processing.
Major Wall Street firms also have scheduled a full workday for tomorrow to catch up on the paperwork. At Kidder, employees from the municipal-bond department, internal audit and even investment banking have been drafted to help the trading staff. Mr. Ryan said that this week, most traders “have been starting their work day at 6 a.m. or 7 a.m. and not finishing until 10 p.m. or midnight."
With a 414-hour trading day for the next three sessions, “we’ll have the ability to process the transactions of everybody who wants to trade,” Mr. Ryan said. He predieted that the shorter hours will be “very temporary,” however. He said the last such hour-shortening move that he could recall was in the late 1960s, when Wall Street's far less automated trading desks were overwhelmed by record volume of 20 million shares a day.
This week's stock market malaise, meanwhile, was reflected in the price of New York Stock Exchange memberships, as two seats were sold yesterday at prices considerably lower than in other recent sales. One seat was sold for $750,000 and another for $760,000, the exchange said. On Monday, a seat was sold for $875,000. ■■ Seat prices in all other sales since April .have been at least $1 million. The record, set in an April sale, was $1.1 million. Currently, seats are quoted at $675,000 bid and $875,000 asked.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.