Industrials Fall 57.61 Points, Mostly on Late Sell-Off, As Rally ...
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 16, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal Pg. 3__________________________
Industrials Fall 57.61 Points, Mostly on Late Sell-Off, As Rally Attempts Fail
; The stock market rout continued yester-I day after repeated weak rally attempts ; failed, and the Dow Jones Industrial Aver; age plunged more than 53 points in the fi-i nal half hour of the New York Stock Ex; change's fourth busiest session ever.
The average, which had struggled to a peak intra-day advance of 15.50 points at 12:30 p.m. EDT, and was fractionally ahead as late as 3 p.m., finished the session at 2355.09. down 57.61 points, or 2.39%.
It was the fifth largest point decline ever for the industrial average, and came
This article was prepared by Tim Met: and Kevin G. Salwcn in New York, Alan Freeman in Philadelphia and Scutl McMurray in Chicago.
the day after the record drop of 95.46 points amid growing signs of anxiety among institutional and individual investors alike, as well as signs that major defections of capital from the stock market to the bond market have begun.
The late plunge partly resulted from a chain reaction from computer-assisted (.trading strategies in the stock and futures ^markets that has grown ominously familiar of late, futures traders said. And Wall ^Street stock traders said some of their ner-jvous institutional clients ordered them to >sell into the late decline.
-	The day's plunge sparked concern 'among some technical anaiysts about whether a prolonged, decline was in pros--pect (see story on page 61). Bond prices (fell further yesterday, pushing yields to even more attractive levels, and one major .bank raised its prime rate a half point to .Ml (see story on page 47). The dollar .eased slightly against other major currencies. but traders predicted that significant declines were imminent (see storv on page £41).
-	Big Board issues declining in price jswamped the gainers by a 5-to-l margin -for the second consecutive session as volume surged to 263.2 million shares from Wednesday's 207.4 million.
Yesterday's drop in the industrial average doesn't rank anywhere in the top 100 down days on a percentage basis, yet three of the five worst one-day point declines now have occurred in the past seven trading sessions.
The average's more than 14% drop since late August, and especially its accelerating declines in the past 10 days, have stunned both big and small market participants. At the block-trading desk of Shear-son Lehman Brothers Inc. in New York, traders have installed a metal sign with an arrow, reading: "To the Lifeboats."
There was palpable relief at the Shear-son desk yesterday when the industrial average didn't open down 40 or more, as
The Fall Continues
DJIA at 15 minute intervals.
2440 ------------
2430
2420
2410
2400
2390
2380
2370
2360
2350
NYSE Volume at a half-hourly basis (Millions of shares)
Open 10	11	12	1	2	3	4
Source: Knujht-Ridder Trade Center
trader Rodd Anderson had feared the index would. But as the market slumped at the opening, a trading colleague muttered: "I haven't heard a buy order in 10 minutes." And Mr. Anderson remained uneasy. "If (stocks) don't open down hard. I think they'll try to rally and fail," he said.
At Charles Schwab & Co.'s discount brokerage in lower Manhattan, many investors said they weren't quite so optimistic as they had been in recent weeks.
Marilyn Bockstern, a computer sales manager, worried that she recently bought several stocks at their peak, including such airline issues as AMR Corp, and Delta Air Lines. "With oil prices supposed to fall, I was looking for new highs in just about every airline stock." Ms. Bockstern said. "God, I hope I was right."
And Alex Thiotos, a Queens, N.Y.. limousine driver, sighed as he watched stock prices fly past on the board. "The market just seems to take one step forward, three steps back,” he said. “I don't like it."
Futures traders in Chicago said that heavy selling of stock index futures for so-called portfolio insurance set off a chain reaction that fueled the late collapse.
Portfolio insurers, typically institutional investors with multibillion-dollar stock holdings, sold Standard & Poor's 500 stockindex futures as "insurance” against losses on their stock portfolios.
The Chicago traders said that few “10-cals"-market makers trading for their own accounts—in the S&P 500 pit are willing to step in and buy many contracts when huge institutions are dumping contracts by the hundreds, as they did yesterday. “The pit was dry; there weren’t any buyers." one trader said. So the futures prices dropped rapidly.
That drop pushed the futures prices to a Please Turn to Page 15, Column -I
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Stocks Plunge Again In Heavy Trading As Rally Bids Fail
Continued From Page 3 deep discount from the value of the actual indexes, principally the S&P 500. The suddenly huge discounts, in turn, set off a wave of arbitrage-related selling in which traders bought the relatively undervalued futures and sold baskets of stocks that mimic the performance of the S&P 500. Arbitrage traders treat futures and stocks as equivalent investments as the futures expire quarterly at the same price as the underlying stock index.
Pension Fund Switch
Meanwhile in Annapolis, Md.. yesterday, the state employees’ pension plan announced that it has sold more than S2.3 billion of common stock in recent weeks and purchased $4 billion of bonds.
The switch means that the pension system, which had about 60% of its assets in stocks in early September, has'reduced that proportion to 35%. Most of the balance is in bonds.
The pension agency manages more than $8 billion of assets on behalf of 205,000 Maryland state and municipal employees, teachers, police officers, judges and legislators.
Bennett Shaver, executive director of the agency, said the transactions, handled by Salomon Brothers Inc., allowed the pension system to realize “substantial” gains on its portfolio of common stocks and to take advantage of yields of about 10% on high-quality bonds. Late yesterday, the latest-issued 30-year Treasury bond was yielding more than 10%.
Because the bond market slump has continued since the Maryland purchases were completed, the bonds that the state agency bought are currently valued at less than their purchase price. However, "we aren't going to sell those bonds.” said Mr.
Shaver. Interest and principal paybacks on them will be used to fund pension payments to the system's 45.000 retirees, he said.
The sales were made from an index fund that included about 375 stocks from the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
Howard France, executive director of investments for the agency, said the decision to sell the stocks was made in mi’d-September, before recent declines in the stock market.
While Maryland's was the only pension plan to announce such a switch yesterday, the state agency isn't alone in its strategy.
New Jersey’s Strategy
However, Maryland's switch was more sudden and drastic than those already completed or being considered by other pension managers queried yesterday.
Roland N. Machold, who manages a $20 billion pension fund portfolio for New Jersey, said the fund has gradually reduced the stock portion of its holdings to about 45%, from about 55%, over the past year.
But, he said, the stock market's recent tumble may create buying opportunities. After last week's 91-point drop in the industrial average, the fund added about $40 million or $50 million to its equities holdings, he said.
At the Colorado Public Employees Retirement Association, Robert J. Scott, executive director, said the fund plans to reduce its percentage of domestic equities but will increase its holdings of overseas stocks.
"We may make a shift to some extent, but nothing as dramatic as what Maryland did," Mr. Scott said.
The $7.5 billion Colorado portfolio currently is about 50%- in U.S. equities, a percentage that Mr. Scott said the fund would like to cut to about 35%,. International stocks are expected to make up 10% of the portfolio in the next two years, he said.
New York state's employee retirement fund has frozen its portfolio's weighting since April, a spokesman for the state comptroller said. The retirement fund currently has 54% of its $37.5 billion of assets
invested in stocks.
Although the state’s fund managers are cautious about the stock market's high level, they plan to keep a major percentage in equity holdings.
“We’re decade investors,” the spokesman said. "We look at stock investments over 10,20,30-year periods. We’re not market timers.” .
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.