Inflation Fears Are Allayed And Investors Attempt To Read Mixed Signals
Sease, Douglas R
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Jan 18, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. 3
Inflation Fears Are Allayed And Investors Attempt To Read Mixed Signals
By Douglas R. Seask
Sluff Reporter of Tun Wai.i.Stiii:i:t Jouiinai.
After a week of near paralysis, the nation’s financial markets are bubbling with activity as investors try to sort out the mixed signals being sent by the U.S. economy.
The $13.22 billion November trade deficit—substantially below most estimates-triggered sharp rallies in the stock and bond markets, boosted the value of the dollar and allayed concerns about inflation. The question is how long those effects will last before other factors come into play in the various markets.
"Now that we have that (the trade data) behind us, whatever underlying tendencies there are can begin to come to the surface," said Cornelia Small, chief economist at Scudder Stevens & Clark.
Bonds and the dollar clearly were the big beneficiaries of the encouraging trade data. The shrunken deficit removed some of the downward pressure on the dollar and signaled the prospects of lower inflation in Hie months ahead. Investors had shied away from the bond market in recent days as anxiety over a potentially weaker dollar and rising inflation gripped the credit markets.
Friday’s bond rally was the biggest since Oct. 22 as prices of some actively traded 30-year government bonds rose more than 2% points, or $26.25 for each $1,000 face amount. Yields on these issues declined to their lowest level since midJuly. Corporate and municipal issues also surged while borrowers issued about $850 million of new debt.
“This is the beginning of a major bull market for bonds,” said Dennis Gartman, president of Portsmouth, Va.-based Gart-man Financial Services Inc. He predicted that yields on 30-year government bonds, now 8.77%, could drop as low as 7.75% this year.
The yield on the Treasury’s 8%% bond due 2017 tumbled to 8.77% from 9.02% Thursday. The current yield is the lowest since last July 21 when it was 8.72%, according to analysts at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. The price of the 30-year bond, meanwhile, rallied to 1013/32 from 9815/ 32 Thursday. The Treasury’s 8?'»% notes due 1997 surged to 10127/32 from 100 2/32, while the yield fell to 8.59% from 8.86% Thursday.	■
An Index of long-term Treasury bonds complied by Shea rson Lehman Brothers Inc. soared 30.12 points to 1276.03, Its biggest gain since Oct. 22, when It rose 32.57 points. The index ranged between 1263.37 and 1279.49.
Currency Traders Pleased
Currency traders were also buoyed by the dollar's response. "The dollar has seen the bottom of three years of decline," said Elshl Wakabayashi, head of foreign exchange at Nippon Kangyo Kakumaru International Inc. In New York. "Basically the dollar Is going to go up from here although there are a lot of skeptics In the market so the pace will be slow."
The stock market’s response was more muted. Stock prices got an Immediate boost from the trade data, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average quickly shooting up 50 points. But the reaction wasn’t sus-tallied and stocks lost some of the gains late in the day, closing at 1956.07, up 39.96. Volume climbed to 197.9 million shares, up from an anemic 140.6 million shares traded Thursday.
London stocks also rallied on the news, but eased before the end of trading. "Peo-pie had gradually braced themselves for the worst," said Randal Goldsmith, a strategist at stockbrokers Janies Capel & Co. "When the trade figure was announced, there was a sudden sigh of relief,
then a mad rush to get hold of stocks Investors had put off buying."
Gold Price Tumbles
In the commodities markets, gold-a traditional Inflation hedge-bore the brunt of the good trade news. Speculators betting that the trade deficit would be considerably larger, had driven up the price of gold $7 an ounce on New York's Commodity Exchange Thursday. The trade report sent gold's price on the Comex tumbling $13.20 an ounce to $482.70. Platinum, always volatile, plunged $23.20 to $482.70.
While the trade data provided some relief for stock Investors, the lack of a stronger, more sustained rally reflects the concerns that still are present in the nolion's economy. These Include slowing consumer spending, uncertainty about corporate profits, and possible heavy liquidations of inventories accumulated in the past few months.
“We’re still In a tunnel of uncertainty about how the financial markets' distress will affect the economy,” said Abby Joseph Cohen, an Investment analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. While she said economic prospects look favorable, "1 think we're going to have continued caution In the stock market. What we need isn't a little pinch, but overwhelming evidence that the economy Is in good shape."
Overall, strategists are looking toward bonds and Industrial stocks as the preferred Investment vehicles for the near term because they stand to benefit most from the nation's improving trade picture. "Riding down the trade deficit, that's lhe Investment theme of 1988," proclaimed Charles Clough, chief strategist for Merrill Lynch. "Buy bonds to expose yourself to slower consumer spending and lower Interest rates and buy Industrial stocks to profit from growing exports."
But It will take more than one good trade number to relieve all the nnxiety In tile financial markets. There remain plenty of skeptics. “It's Only a reprieve for the bond market," said Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Brothers Inc. He predicted that the trade deficit will remain “at or above the November levels In the months ahead and therefore November's data doesn't signal a turnaround in the U.S. dependence on foreign capital to finance Its domestic savings gap."
And Drexel's Ms. Cohen noted that "there are many people out there who think the economy Is going Into a massive sinkhole and a large number who think it will do all right. What is disturbing is that the sentiment swings from one to another so rapidly. What we need most of all Is for It to be June of 1988. Then whatever Is going to happen will have happened."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.