Stocks Fall to Week's Lows as Oil, Bonds, Dollar Shake Up Market: ABREAST OF THE MARK CRAIG TORRES Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Oct 10, 1990;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
Pg. C2________________
Stocks Fall to Week’s Lows as Oil,
Bonds, Dollar Shake Up Market
By Cr.MG Tokkes
I Staff Reporter o/The Wai.lSthkktJouiinal
NEW YORK-Stocks (ell to their lowest levels In more than n week, ns Investors backed away from a market shaken by climbing oil prices, plunging bonds and a sagging dollar.
A major quarterly earnings disappointment from Motorola also shook investors right from the opening bell.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 78.22 to 2145.54, the lowest close since Sept. 27 and the biggest one-day decline since a 93.31-polnt drop Aug. 6. Broader averages also slid steeply: Standard & Poor’s 500-Stock Index dropped 8.38 to 305.10. the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 4.24 to 167.41 and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index lost 7.65 to 282.01.
Yesterday's decline was not distinguished by waves of computer-driven sell programs, or panicky declines In dozens of stocks, but by the refusal of Institutions to buy shares as they became cheaper throughout the day. Shortly before 3 p.m. EDT, the Big Board's program-trading curb, known as a "circuit-breaker," kicked in as the Dow Jones Industrial Average slid to a 50-point loss.
But right up to the final hour, trading volume was sluggish.
At 3 p.m.. Big Board volume was only 118.630.0(XI shares. But a big. final-hour technical sell off in the Chicago stock-index futures markets sped up trading, and accelerated price declines, taking Big Board volume up to 145,610.000 at the close. Only 288 issues advanced at the exchange while 1,313 declined.
Traders said investors simply stayed away from the market, figuring that the risks of owning stocks currently far outweigh the rewards. They pointed to November crude oil prices, which rose S1.45 to S40.40 a barrel on renewed fears of a military conflict in the Persian Gulf. In addition, Treasury bond prices fell nearly 1*4 points, or S17.50 for each SI,000 face amount, to yield 8.96%. And the dollar, for which few can make a positive case as Investors lose confidence In U.S. fiscal policy. continued to weaken.
J. David Mills, senior vice president at Boston Co. Advisers, said the sinking dollar is a major negative for the stock market. He does not expect significant reductions in the budget deficit, so the government will continue to rely to a great extent on foreign Investment in Treasury securities. A declining dollar introduces currency risk for foreigners, which Is typically offset by higher interest rates, he says. Rising rates, of course, would further slow the economy, erode corporate profits, and eventually undercut stock prices.
Meanwhile, dozens of stocks continue falling to levels investors haven’t seen for months, yet still not low enough to entice’ buyers. I see a lot of stocks that I really want to own, but I can't buy them because
they nre going lower," said Mr. Mills.
And today they might at least start out doing just that. Stock-Index futures closed at levels below the relative prices of the underlying stocks, said Donald Selkin. head of stock futures research at Pruden-tlal-Bache Securities. "Assuming futures open unchanged or lower, stocks should adjust downward," he said.
Motorola lost 7 points to 52\. on most-active volume of more than 3.8 million shares.
The electronics maker reported third-quarter profit of 78 cents a share, up from 69 cents a year earlier. But many analysts were expecting SI or more a share, said Lawrence Borgman, an analyst at Dillon Read. He cited weaker shipments in cellular telephones as one reason for the disappointing quarter.
Among other prominent technology stocks declining yesterday were Digital Equipment, which fell 2'i to 47 V; Compaq Computer, down 3 to 38 V, and International Business Machines, which fell 4 8b to 105V.
Some of the year's favorite growthstocks also took a pounding as investors were chilled by Motorola's failure to meet high-growth expectations. Home Depot fell 2V to 27V on 2.2 million shares; Merck fell 3'< to 75‘«; and Procter & Gamble fell 3'» to 76’s.
Aerospace and defense issues were among the few stocks that gained yesterday. Loral rose ‘-2 to 32. McDonnell Douglas gained V to 51; and Boeing rose to 44 ■’».
Takeover rumors again swirled around Upjohn, lifting the stock 1 to 37V. But other drug issues generally tumbled. Ell Lilly fell 3'« to 73*4; Abbott Labs fell Ti to 40’4; and Pfizer fell IV to 73V.
General Cinema sold an approximately 17% state in Cadbury Schweppes PLC In London early yesterday for an after tax gain of more than $80 million; analysts cheered the move and General Cinema's stock rose V to 18's.
Sid Dorr, head of institutional trading at Charles Schwab, says investors should expect an unstable stock market for a while.
"The market is looking for some point that It can bounce off of. and I think it will be from lower levels." he says.
But Robert Walsh, a money manager at Jenswold King & Associates, says he was buying stocks today.
"The market today is trading on a worst-case scenario." says Mr. Walsh, whose firm manages about S42O million for individuals and pension funds. He says that an ounce of good news could set the stage for a fairly dramatic rise in stock prices.
"We would put at least half of new money in stocks right at this point in time,” he says.
The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 3.46 to 303.05. Volume totaled 11,720,000 shares.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.