Stocks' Drop Isn't Swaying Many Minds: ABREAST OF THE MARKET ABREAST OF THE MARK Wall Street Journal (1923 - Current file); Nov 18, 1991;
ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal
pg. C1
ABREAST OF THE MARKET
A Wall Street3 ournal News Roimfup
It takes more than a oneday, tShpomt drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average to persuade Wall Street's market sages to re-evaluate their positions. .
As the curtain rises today onapoten-tially pivotal trading session, the optimists are stUl bullish, the pessimists remain bearish and the fence-sitters cling tenaciously to their perches. Let's listen in as these redoubtable money managers and analysts discuss how Friday's plunge confirmed what they have known all along.
Optimism
The Industrial Average’s Gfth-biggest point drop in histoiy “doesn’t make you feel good, but you do have to look at it based on the whole year, and it has been a very good year,” says John R.Ruey, investments manager for the $25 billion Amoco Corp, pension fund. At its dose of 2943.20, the Industrial Average is still up 11.75% so far this year.
IlnlthetOctdbenswoonsioT 11987(uniltMl, ipensionffundsileametitthdtlHiginioiu^iimdUl ibe (made Iby (taking (advantage <of mnrttet (dips (to (add tto ttheir istodk [positions. “VWe (tend mot itoisell (on wredkness; wtetteuHtto buy,"Mr.lRueysays.Because Atmiien,Hite many [pension [funds, Ihdids imany ttjgiesaff investments, iincluding Ibonds (that tended with (gains (Friday, “'Ellis '.was :a Until (day lforone;partidfttheiportfdlio,ipaiitidliy«IBsUt (by mtheriareas;" lhe (adds.
The SI3 million Maryland State tRetire-imenV&lPensionJSystenisIhas.'SperttssBvenil (months adding! toiits.'ffiffilllion:studk[poittfo-llio, iso (the (market (dedline will istretbh itts dollarsto'buyimorefshares.‘\weire[pitttiiig moneyiinto'theimarket (grail u tillysundUlm always happy! to; acquire wdluiiHleiusstteatt (more .attractive [prices;" (says HeibeSt IL. Tlyer.iexecutive (director tdf tthe MuipIlunU fund/
•Ttiisiisinot:attimetto;dbandonStiidte;" says (Frank VW. 'Terrizzi, [president audi :managing(iiirector(dfIRenaissanae [Investment Management Hnc.,;aK!indinntttifiirm :thatmowimanages;aboutSSlAlbillion."®)ur model lhas inot (changed. \We irenmin ffLilly (invested iin (stocks, ;as we (have tbeen ftor the (last (12 (months:"
Mr.TerrizziiemphasizestthatmtlRenais-
sinue‘“wa-truly.dbtake along-term view,” lliesnj!S.“SOmeirecentwork that we did in-dihatudl that! stocks—again,. within a long-tttnmiaanthxtt-are-extremely attractive.” Ukspitm tiie? advance- ini stock prices this SBiur/’dleidbcllheiihimterestrates spurred IhyttteliredhrallReserveJ and its desires to g’.ttttluieeonomymoving:again has caused stticksi to> become-evem more attractive in rp.cc.ntt weeks;:" He-says;
Ute dbtqp ini Botlii short- and long-term uithnesttnates,“HasiOccurred ata relatively fiisttur rate ttiani Has; tiie-advance in stock qniiiast.andlsmwHeniyouicouple those phen-amuniuttigptHeri.xouiendiup with the result ttlntt stbcRs; are- compellingly more attrac-ttireuniairelbtiVe-basis;!’ Mr; Terrizzi con-cliutes.
Pessimism
Blitt otHen investors; remain leery. "I ttiihlk equities; still; are a little bit rich," s:iVVS.IeffHey.A'..EOxon;chief investment of-fiteirattttteHafiiyette-ILife Insurance Co. in Lafiiyctte;, hull. “Alli the traditional meas-liir-soffvalue;are-telling.you that the stock muriien Hits Heeni slightly overvalued by • 1111% tin 151%,:" He- says;. While Mr. Poxon dlnmiltt expect ai financial: Armageddon, he
also doesn’t see Friday’s setback as a buying opportunity. “Not yet," he says.
Robert Farrell, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, also cautions against jumping into the market if stock prices rebound from Friday’s debacle.
“I feel we’re late in the market cycle, and the market’s in process of building a top,” he says. “I can’t say it is going to go straight down here. I just think risk is high. It's a time to be using rallies to cut back on exposure to stocks, rather than to be expanding exposure.”
Mr. Farrell recalls that a year ago, investors generally were bearish, there was "very little speculation,” few new stock issues, the over-the-counter was “kind of dead,” and stocks in general were trading at “medium valuations.” Now, prices are considerably higher, and Mr. Farrell says' he is struck by what he senses to be exces-' sive enthusiasm, a picture that emerges from monitoring of activity among Merrill customers, both institutions and individuals.
Mr. Farrell says he realizes part of this bullishness stems from falling interest' rates. Lower rates may eventually help the economy, he says, “but over the next sev-
Please Turn to Page C2, Column 3
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Stock Market Players Are Sticking With Their Instincts After Plunge
ABREAST OF THE MARKET
"My ranitak e we're naw in for a 10% correcticm o the Ekiw” industrials and Standaid & Ftafs SOiFsteck index, “and a 20% to 29% tmKtm in Nasdaq” over-the-connter storks^ be says,
Nat eren jrofessnaal pessimists, the shont-sdOevs—oresttsnrs whet look for overpriced stnrils and seB fautrowed shares in a bet they can lie tmught back later more cheaply—were parttaihriy cheered by Friday's (Stage.
■"One day dresal make a market,’ ’ says Joseph ReSMmrfti, rare of the Feshbach Brothers of Paks Alto, Calif. Last year, short-seEi® earned the brothers a 57% return ran tbe rearfy 5500 million in investment matey they manage. Tins year, they're tuken a beating from rising stocks. A sdicrrtt who iss to boy back a stock at a higher price titan it was sold for takes a Hoss.
Mir- gtedterft was pleased with his portfoBo's pesfainiamre on Friday, calling tie session an "intaestfog day.” Maybe, be says, “tffis e tbe beginning of something more	front our point of
view.'’ But ite E pessimistic that pessimism wa sweep tfsrough the market and redeem the shorts.
Because Mr. Feshbach's business is to End stocks to seffl dta* for his investors, he doesn't tWnk tn tarats of buying—not even a beaismdown stock or two for his own account after Friday's decEtne.
“Buy?” Mr. Ffemtariii asks, as if the ■word isn't part ef His vocabulary. “I would buy a bottle of wire and sit back and watch."
tence-bimng
"I don't a crash s coming,” says Leon G. Ooqpsmaa. partner at Goldman Sachs and bead of Gddman’s big moneymanagement itai- Friday's sinking spell ■was merely “a Set across the bow of the market, It Set the air out of the sails of some <of tbe tufc, and it win quiet down some of tbe spectsterfats in biotechnology. So I third- the stock market was due for a breather, and thats was healthy.”
But now isn't the tMe to rush back in
and buy stocks, warns Mr. Cooperman, who will be retiring from Goldman at the end of this month to start ah investment partnership. “People are arguing over the possibility of a double-dip recession, but we haven’t even had an economic recovery to double dip from,” he says.
Stocks won’t collapse, he predicts, because “we have a Federal Reserve that is very desirous of accommodating" the financial system with easier credit and lower interest rates. “We have a very low level of short-term interest rates, which is not terribly effective competition to the stock market.” (For example, six-month Treasury bills today yield only about 4%%, and two-year Treasury notes only 5.85%.)
Also, he notes, 1992 is a presidential election year. That means the Bush administration probably will be diligent in trying to promote economic growth, he says, “which should serve to prop up" stocks.
But don’t get carried away, Mr. Cooperman cautions. “This is a time to be conservative, because I think the stock market is richly priced relative to the economy. If there isn't a consequential (economic I recovery, then there’s a lot of downside" to stock prices. ‘‘And if there is an economic recovery, which I expect will be the case, a lot of it already is discounted” in the stock market.
Therefore, he says, "this is not an environment to be fully invested. It's an environment to hedge your bets."
Polite selling in the morning became wholesale dumping late in the day. The Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 120.31 points to 2943.20—the largest one-day drop since a 190-point loss on Oct. 13, 1989.
Blue-chip stocks led the retreat. The 3.9% loss in the Dow Jones industrials compares with a 3.7% drop in the S&P 500-stock index and a 3.6% drop in the Dow Jones Equity Market Index. The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 3.3%.
Volume totaled 236,000,000 shares on the Big Board, where 1,484 stocks declined and only 334 advanced.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.