Industrials Soar 257.21 on Hopes for Rate Cut
By Greg Ip
Wall Street Journal; Sep 24, 1998; ProQuest pg. C.1
Industrials Soar 257.21 on Hopes for a Rate Cut
By Greg Ir
Staff Reporter of The Wall StheetJouhnal
Hints ot lower short-term interest rates sparked an across-the-board rally in stocks, building on a base of investor confidence that was several days in the making.
Stocks opened stronger on overseas gains and gathered momentum after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told Congress the Impact of the foreign economic crisis on the U.S. was likely to intensify. Investors saw that as a sign that the Fed could cut interest rates as soon as next week. That sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 257.21 points, or 3.26%, to 8154.41, its highest close since Aug. 27.
It was the blue-chip index's fifth-largest point gain ever. (Three of the five biggest have occurred this month.) But yesterday's rise wasn't as historic in percentagepoint terms: It tied for the 207th-largest in percentage terms and was only the 13th-largest since 1987.
More important to investors, the average has now recovered 8.2% since Aug. 31. At that point, the index had shed 19.3% since its record close on July 17.
While the immediate cause of yesterday's rally was Mr. Greenspan’s testimony
The Roller Coaster Continues
The Dow Industrials Jumped...
DJIA at 5-minute intervals yesterday
And Small Stocks Continue Rally
Selected stock market indexes reindexed to 100 on Aug. 31,1998
to Congress, traders and analysts had seen a base forming for several days. In particular, for a change small stocks were holding up better than blue chips, and in recent days more stocks had been rising than falling despite lackluster showings for major indexes. Furthermore, in contrast to earlier sessions when the slightest bad news would spark a cascade of selling, stocks had proved remarkably robust in the face of some negative developments.
“Greenspan set the stage for lower short-term rates going forward, and the
market celebrated as one might expect," said Marshall Acuff, strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. But "the most significant aspect of the celebration is the broadening out of the market, which isn't new today, it's been developing over recent days.”
Yesterday, advancers easily beat decliners by more than a 3-to-l ratio on the New York Stock Exchange and 2-to-1 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, repeating the encouraging performance shown on Tuesday when the industrial average fell 36.05 points. Furthermore, since Sept. 11, the
Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitaliza-tion stocks has gained 6.3% while the industrial average is up just 4.6%.
That is just the opposite of the pattern in place just before the correction began, when blue chips continued to gain while the vast majority of smaller stocks fell deeper into bear markets of their own. Then, the “Dow was masking weakness in the secondary market,” noted Robert Harrington, co-head of listed block trading atPaineWebber. Recently, "thesecondary market was strong compared to the Dow. That was telling me there was confidence and money coming back in."
Even on Monday, when the industrial average lost 185 points in the opening minutes, Mr. Harrington saw signs that the sell-off was overdone. That morning, the technology stock trader “had something like 22 'buy' tickets on his desk" and two or three 'sell' tickets. The Dow industrials closed higher that day. The recovery of technology and transport stocks suggests "maybe the market had discounted how bad things can be."
But it's still too soon to say if the rally is really reaffirmation that the bull market is Intact, or just a short-term bounce, or, as some call it, a bear market trap.
Indeed, while Mr. Greenspan's testimony may have been the catalyst for the stock market's rally, his central message is far more sobering. Foreign events’ Please Turn to Piute CH, Column 5
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Industrials Soar on Hints of Cut
Continued From Page Cl “restraining effects ... on the U.S. economy are likely to intensify," he said. “Disappointing profits in a number of industries and less-rapid expansion of sales suggest some stretching out of capital-investment plans in the months ahead. Lower equity prices and higher financing costs should damp household and business spending, and greater uncertainty and risk aversion may also lead to more-cautious spending behavior.”
Noted Mr. Acuff: “The profit outlook is going to remain a question mark conceivably for the next 12 months because Greenspan is in effect telling you the U.S. is going to start slowing down, and that is in the context of a margin squeeze that began in the third quarter of last year."
Underlining that point, shares of household-appliance maker Windntere-Durable Holdings nose-dived 54% and those of industrial services and products company Harsco shed 35% as both issued profit warnings.
But for yesterday at least, the most acutely affected victims of investor panic felt a rush of relief. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange bank index soared 5.9% and the American Stock Exchange securities-bro-ker index leapt 7.3%. Those two sectors had borne the brunt of selling as investors, scared of how serious the meltdown in emerging markets could be, dumped them wholesale. They owed their rebound yesterday both to the prospect of lower rates, and, traders said, news on CNBC that creditors of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management were trying to engineer a bailout of the firm.
Travelers topped the Big Board’s most-active list, rising 3 9/16 to 42 15/16, while
J.P. Morgan & Co. added 5 1/1G to 93%. Meanwhile, on Nasdaq, Internet stocks roared back with Yahoo! gaining 14 15/16 to 117% while Amazon.com jumped 16 15/16 to 105%.
Meanwhile, the Nasdaq composite climbed 62.47 points, or 3.68%, to 1760.27. The Russell 2000 added 7.76 points, or 2.11%, to 376.00.
In foreign markets, Brazil's main stock market index roared ahead 11%, with Mexican and Argentine bourses nearly keeping pace. European markets also rose strongly, while Asian markets had more subdued gains.
Previously, “what we have had is flat out panic," said James Griffin, market strategist, at Aeltus Investment Management. “When you look at sentiment, volatility, the degree of price adjustment, you can make a case we were trying to put in a bottom. The powder had been tamped and with the right kind of fuse you could have quite a decent rally, and on a one-day basis, you've had the fuse of Greenspan’s words."
World-wide, stocks rose in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index rose 4.88 to 174.36.
In major market action:
Stocks rose. On the Big Board, where 897.5 million shares traded, 2,377 advanced while 800 declined. The average Big Board stock rose 3.2%.
Bonds and the dollar were mixed. In New York trading, the dollar fell to 1.6785 marks from 1.6813 Tuesday but rose to 135.8500 yen from 135.2600 Tuesday.
-Gregory Zuckerman in New York contributed to this article.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.