5/26/2017 Gloomy Return: U.S. Stocks Plummet As Trading Resumes Without Major Hitches --- Investors, Unable to Shake Worries About Economy, Send Dow D...
More like this + Gloomy Return: U.S. Stocks Plummet As Trading Resumes Without Major Hitches --- Investors, Unable to Shake Worries About Economy, Send Dow Down 7.13% --Sustaining Record Volume
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]18 Sep 2001: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The Dow industrials' plunge of 684.81 was their worst-ever point drop, but it ranked only 14th among the average's worst percentage declines, falling well short of its 22.61% plunge on Black Monday, Oct. 19, 1987. The average's closing mark of 8920.70 put it in bear-market territory, typically defined as a 20% fall from its peak, where it joined the Nasdaq and S&P 500 indexes.
The Nasdaq composite's drop of 115.83 ties for 49th in size among its single-day point losses. However, its was the index's 11th-worst percentage drop. Yesterday's close, at 1579.55, put the Nasdaq 68.7% below its all-time high of 5048.62, which was set in March 2000, before the Internet-stock bubble burst.
There were some optimists. Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdul Aziz Alsaud, a billionaire investor with stakes in everything from Citigroup to AOL Time Warner to Motorola to Walt Disney, said in a news release that he has "great confidence" in the U.S. economy. He added, "I believe over the next few days investors should refrain from selling. Panic is only going to hurt those who do not understand the mechanism of the U.S. economy. The American economy is solid, and I am not selling anything."
Full Text Translate
It was bad, but it could have been worse.
On an emotional first day of trading, after a terrorist attack that led to a four-day closure, stocks fell sharply, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbling 7.13% and the Nasdaq Composite Index dropping 6.83% from their closes on Monday, Sept. 10.
But while the declines were steeper than many had hoped for, they weren't the apocalyptic plunges that some had feared. As thousands of Wall Street workers trudged past the rubble of the World Trade Center to reopen the markets, the major exchanges handled massive trading volume with few glitches -- offering a big boost to the nation's effort to repair both its infrastructure and its psyche.
The New York Stock Exchange handled a record 2.37 billion shares, up from its previous high of 2.09 billion shares, on Jan. 4. On the the Nasdaq Stock Market, volume was a hefty 2.23 billion shares, shy of the market's 3.1-billion-share record.
The Dow industrials' plunge of 684.81 was their worst-ever point drop, but it ranked only 14th among the average's worst percentage declines, falling well short of its 22.61% plunge on Black Monday, Oct. 19, 1987. The average's closing mark of 8920.70 put it in bear-market territory, typically defined as a 20% fall from its peak, where it joined the Nasdaq and S&P 500 indexes.
The Nasdaq composite's drop of 115.83 ties for 49th in size among its single-day point losses. However, its was the index's 11th-worst percentage drop. Yesterday's close, at 1579.55, put the Nasdaq 68.7% below its all-time high of 5048.62, which was set in March 2000, before the Internet-stock bubble burst.
Yesterday's heavy volume left some investors worried that the market may not be out of danger. Indeed, stocks fell despite a rare and concerted effort by regulators to give them a boost, the announcements of numerous stock buybacks by major corporations and a grass-roots campaign by individual investors to refrain from selling. To little avail for the market, the Federal Reserve Board lowered its benchmark interest rate a half point, to 3.0%, its eighth rate reduction this year, and the Securities and Exchange Commission waived a list of rules in hopes of encouraging buying.
But that wasn't enough to counter widespread anxieties about the economy. Even though interest rates are now at their lowest level in nine years, the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon threatens to cause both businesses and consumers to scale back spending, possibly pushing an already weak economy into a recession.
"The outlook for the economy wasn't great before the attacks last week," says Michael Stead, chief investment officer at SIFE Trust Fund, a Walnut Creek, Calif., mutual fund that specializes in financial stocks. "It's worse now." Although he says he didn't make a single trade all day, Mr. Stead says he is bracing himself for rising defaults on loans and a continued drop in corporate earnings.
Given yesterday's heavy volume, the selling appeared to come from big institutional investors, rather than individuals. Indeed, mutual funds said that their investors weren't fleeing the market, although there were reports of funds dumping stocks in sectors that seem to have little hope for gains in the medium term, such as airlines.
There were some optimists. Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdul Aziz Alsaud, a billionaire investor with stakes in everything from Citigroup to AOL Time Warner to Motorola to Walt Disney, said in a news release that he has "great confidence" in the U.S. economy. He added, "I believe over the next few days investors should refrain from selling. Panic is only going to hurt those who do not understand the mechanism of the U.S. economy. The American economy is solid, and I am not selling anything."
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398827573/1383F547C8D265FA18B/3?accountid=14026
1/3
5/26/2017 Gloomy Return: U.S. Stocks Plummet As Trading Resumes Without Major Hitches --- Investors, Unable to Shake Worries About Economy, Send Dow D...
Despite the declines and the heavy volume, the markets managed to close off their intraday lows. The Dow had been down by as much as 721.56 points during the session. "There's been very little panic in these markets," says David DiPietro, head of North American equities for Deutsche Bank, watching the action from his trading floor. "It's noisy, but it's not hysterical, and that's a good sign."
Among the market's worst-hit sectors were the airline and hotel industries, which have already been hurt by a reduction in travel in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks. UAL Corp., the parent of United Airlines, tumbled 43%, down $13.32, at $17.50, and AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines, plunged $11.70, or 39%, to $18.
Among hotel stocks, Four Seasons Hotels plunged $10.67, or 23%, to $36.25. Marriott International surrendered $8.60, or 21%, to 32.25, and Hilton Hotels dropped $2.64, or 24%, to $8.55.
With the insurance industry bracing for huge claims for life and property losses from the World Trade Center disaster, American International Group fell $3.26, or 5%, to $71, and MetLife fell $1.89, or 6.6%, to $26.91.
Defense stocks were among the day's few gainers, on expectations that there will be an increase in federal defense spending. Lockheed Martin rose $5.63, or 15%, to $43.95. InVision Technologies, which makes systems used in detecting bombs, rose $5.14, or 165%, to $8.25.
The good news was that technologically, the market withstood the selling onslaught with no major troubles. "We had no glitches reported," said a spokesman for the Big Board. But, in a sign that it wasn't all business as usual, there was heightened security at the NYSE, with bomb sniffing dogs on duty to check all packages.
Across town, Hardwick Simmons, president of the Nasdaq Stock Market, said that aside from the emotion of resuming trading after the worst terrorist attack in the nation's history, "this was just like a normal day." He said he didn't even alter his schedule, except to participate in the opening bell ceremony at the rival NYSE.
On the floor of the Big Board, trader Joseph Cangemi overcame his fear of becoming a terrorist target and came to work expecting "frantic, active and volatile." By noon, Mr. Cangemi was pleasantly surprised: "It's been busy, but not overridden with anxiety. The systems have held up remarkably well and so have the people."
The mood was tense but somber on trading floors of big securities firms, in New York and cities around the country just before the market opened. At 9:15 a.m., in a 21st-floor conference room at FleetBoston, about 20 portfolio managers and analysts gathered to plot strategy. Money managers in shirt sleeves spoke the dry, clinical language of securities analysis -- of price-earnings ratios and book value -- while they acknowledged in side conversations the pain they feel for lost colleagues.
"We need to make good investment decisions," cautioned Keith Banks, chief executive officer of Fleet Asset Management, as the meeting closed. "We can't get caught up in the trading frenzy. That's not a game we can win. We'll get wiped out."
For two minutes of silence before the market opened, dozens of traders sat before frozen computer screens, some with their eyes closed. After a singer wrapped up her rendition of "God Bless America," a smattering of applause filled the room, and many other trading rooms nationwide, and the market sprang to life.
Betsy Farnham, Fleet Asset Management's head trader, was struck by the subdued nature of the first few minutes of trading. It was, she says, as if so many market pros, like those at Fleet, had decided just to wait and see.
Asked about colleagues at the World Trade Center, Ms. Farnham's eyes filled with tears. "I promised myself I wouldn't get emotional today," she confided. But, Ms. Farnham added, "It's very hard to be working. Of course, we have to do whatever's in the best interests of our clients. But I don't think anyone wants to think about benefiting or taking advantage of anything from this tragedy."
Traders and investors quickly focused on the business at hand. In addition to the rate cut, another early positive sign was a bullish report by Goldman Sachs Group strategist Abby Joseph Cohen. Within 10 minutes of the open, however, it was clear that sell orders outnumbered the buy orders that were seen in the first seconds of trading, and the major indexes began to slide, with the Dow falling more than 300 points in the first half-hour.
Though trading proceeded with no major problems, there were minor glitches, as on the midtown Manhattan trading floor of Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown, where a group of traders had difficulty reaching their trading booth on the Big Board's floor. "How are things going up there?" one staffer barked into a walkie-talkie to a colleague on the firm's sales floor. The answer: At least three phone lines weren't working.
Tempers frayed, as the firm's traders gestured frantically at one another, and one tapped a co-worker's head with a telephone receiver to attract the latter's attention.
One by one, as stocks in the Dow Jones industrials average opened for trading, the market bellwether slid further. American Express, whose corporate headquarters across the street from the World Trade Center sustained significant damage, was the last Dow component to open for business. Its shares fell 13.6%, or $4.76, to $30.25 in late trading, amid a plunge by travel-related shares.
Shortly after 10 a.m. EDT, the industrial average was down more than 500 points.
Among the heavy sellers were some hedge funds, the big private investment pools that often trade actively during unsettled times and frequently are referred to as the market's "hot money." While normally secretive, they were especially so yesterday, seeking to avoid blame for making stocks crater.
Five hedge-fund managers -- who wouldn't agree to be identified -- acknowledged selling in order to trim the size of their portfolios. Said one hedge-fund manager who reduced his stock holdings: "You don't want to be overexposed. . . . A lot of guys are keeping their hands in their pockets."
Another hedge-fund manager with more than $5 billion under management whose firm was shedding stocks said at midafternoon that he was surprised the market had fallen only about 5%, and expected it to fall further when more aggressive trading impulses take over in coming days. He said that he decided against short-selling stocks such as AMR today -- or, selling borrowed shares in hopes of buying them back at a lower price -- because it would have felt too much like "profiteering."
In the days since the terrorist attacks, a grass-roots campaign, conducted by e-mail, had urged citizens to show their patriotism by buying stocks in order to prop up the U.S. market when it reopened for business. But any buying generated yesterday by the much-ballyhooed effort paled in comparison to the heavy selling by institutions.
"Patriotism is wonderful, but you have a whole world voting in the market and some members of that world are nervous," said Nasdaq's Mr. Simmons. Over the next few days, he said he expects continued volatility as investors sort through the effects of the attacks and its impact on the economy and various sectors.
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398827573/1383F547C8D265FA18B/3?accountid=14026
2/3
5/26/2017 Gloomy Return: U.S. Stocks Plummet As Trading Resumes Without Major Hitches --- Investors, Unable to Shake Worries About Economy, Send Dow D...
Mr. Simmons said he doesn't think, however, that the markets will tumble again. Many institutional investors "are sitting out and waiting to see where they should step into the market," he says. "The negative side always gets out of the way first. The positive side takes longer. All the strength in this market is not in the game yet."
Some investors are poised to buy if they see stocks decline more. Dan Stern, of Reservoir Capital Group in New York, said he has been drawing up a potential wish list. "When you have a sell-off of this magnitude, when branded names are down 40% or 50%, it is worth it to start looking," he noted, adding that there could be buying opportunities among battered travel and insurance stocks.
"I see [the market's drop on Monday] as a one-time event rather than a change in environment," said Hugh Beecher, a principal and portfolio manager with Fairview Capital Management in Larkspur, Calif. "This turns it into more of a 'V' recession, where we have a lower bottom than we would have ever hit if this had never happened, but also we'll get a sharper recovery," likely beginning within six months or so, he added. "We're seeing the country come together as we haven't seen it do in probably 40 years.
That's got to be good for the economy."
Credit: A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
Word count: 2070
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Sep 18, 2001
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Terrorism
LJ Aircraft hijacking
LJ Stock prices
U Dow Jones averages
U NASDAQ trading
U Foreign investments in the US
U Securities trading
Location
U United States
U US
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Falling Up : The Days and Nights of Carlisle Floyd, The Authorized Biogra...
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
http://search.proquest.com .turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398827573/1383F547C8D265FA18B/3?accountid=14026
3/3