3/28/2018
The Economy -- The Outlook: Poor Profits and Stocks Sow Mutual Misery - ProQuest
1Back to results	More like this +
The Economy -- The Outlook: Poor Profits and Stocks Sow Mutual Misery
By Jon E. Hilsenrath. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 July 2002: A.2.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate Hide highlighting The profit picture isn't uniformly grim. Government statistics, which track profits for a wide swath of companies large and small, suggest cost-cutting has helped companies repair profit margins. Yet even as that improvement takes hold, analysts are waking up to the myriad ways -- from pension-plan accounts to "goodwill" charges to stock-option expenses -- in which the stock market itself is turning into a headwind for profits.
The plush returns pension plans earned in the stock market in the 1990s left most of them substantially overfunded. As a result, instead of recording pension expenses, many large companies enjoyed billions of dollars in pension income, indirectly boosting reported earnings.
Accounting rules allow companies to soften the impact of today's sharp market swings. Rather than record More
Full Text Translate	Turn on search term navigation
FOR MONTHS, lousy profits have weighed on stock prices. Now, just as profits are expected to bounce back, something unusual is happening: The stock market's poor performance is starting to boomerang back on profits themselves.
That is bad news for investors as reporting for the second quarter continues. Wall Street analysts expect Standard & Poor's 500 companies to report that earnings from continuing operations, excluding items, were flat with a year ago, according to Thomson First Call. That is a marked improvement from double-digit declines during 2001, but hardly inspiring after months of aggressive cost-cutting. Perhaps more importantly, expectations are dimming. In April, analysts expected third-quarter S&P 500 profits to rise 20.7% from a year ago. Now they see 14.7% growth, and First Call research director Chuck Hill says those numbers "are still too high."
Accounting scandals only cloud the picture. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said last week he expects more companies to restate their earnings, as executives deal with a Securities and Exchange Commission order forcing them to swear to the accuracy and completeness of their corporate financial statements, amid the congressional threat of criminal sanctions.
The profit picture isn't uniformly grim. Government statistics, which track profits for a wide swath of companies large and small, suggest cost-cutting has helped companies repair profit margins. Yet even as that improvement takes hold, analysts are waking up to the myriad ways -- from pension-plan accounts to "goodwill" charges to
https://search-proquest-com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398866937/81897F75C41A4EF3PQ/1?accountid=12861
1/4
3/28/2018	The Economy -- The Outlook: Poor Profits and Stocks Sow Mutual Misery - ProQuest
stock-option expenses -- in which the stock market itself is turning into a headwind for profits.
Consider defined-benefit pension plans, which are common at Old Economy companies such as General Motors Corp. In these plans, companies invest employee pension funds to meet predefined obligations.
The plush returns pension plans earned in the stock market in the 1990s left most of them substantially overfunded. As a result, instead of recording pension expenses, many large companies enjoyed billions of dollars in pension income, indirectly boosting reported earnings.
Now, as the stock market swoons, pension income is under some pressure. Verizon Communications Inc., for instance, experienced $3 billion in investment losses on pension assets in 2001, compared with investment gains of $1.3 billion in 2000.
Accounting rules allow companies to soften the impact of today's sharp market swings. Rather than record actual gains or losses on pension assets every year, companies are allowed to smooth out market movements by projecting long-term rates of return on their assets. Verizon, for instance, was able to mute the impact of its 2001 investment losses by projecting a 9.3% return on plan assets. That allowed the New York telecommunications company to report pension income of $1.8 billion rather than a loss.
But accounting analysts say companies could be increasingly affected over time as the stock market falls. Not only are pension assets at many companies shrinking, but if the losses persist, they might also have to reduce expectations for long-term returns from the 9% to 10% rates expected on many plans today. That would increase expenses. "It can lead to a vicious downward spiral" in profits, says Pat McConnell, accounting analyst with Bear Stearns & Co.
Verizon says its 9.3% projected return is still justified. "The time horizon for a pension plan generally runs about 10 years. Over the prior 10 years, Verizon's plan has averaged about an 11% increase," spokesman Robert Varettoni says.
The stock market weighs on profits in other ways. Take Allstate Corp., which last week reported that second-quarter earnings doubled to $344 million from a year earlier. The Northbrook, Ill., company also took a $331 million charge against first-quarter earnings to write off the value of "goodwill" assets related to two 1990s acquisitions.
Goodwill is an intangible asset created when one company pays a premium price to acquire another. Under new accounting rules, companies must write off the value of goodwill when it no longer appears as valuable as it had in the past. Falling stock prices add pressure to do this, because they show that investors no longer value the assets as highly.
"We saw $100 billion in goodwill write-offs in the first quarter," says Robert Willens, a tax and accounting analyst at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. "We expect at least that much, if not a larger amount, over the balance of the year."
Finally, there are stock options. Last week, Coca-Cola Co., of Atlanta, said it would start recording options as expenses, in response to widespread concerns that companies hide their true labor costs in option plans that don't appear in the income statement. The move set off a storm of speculation that more companies would follow suit, putting downward pressure on reported earnings in the months ahead.
https://search-proquest-com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398866937/81897F75C41A4EF3PQ/1?accountid=12861
2/4
3/28/2018
The Economy -- The Outlook: Poor Profits and Stocks Sow Mutual Misery - ProQuest
As Mr. Greenspan noted last week, there is another corporate dilemma related to stock options. The weak stock market has made options themselves less attractive to workers and executives. He said the value of stockoption grants in 2001 fell by 15%, and is likely to fall again this year. As employees shy away from options, Mr. Greenspan noted, many companies are going to have to go back to paying their workers cold, hard cash, hitting profits further.
Word count: 878
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Jul 22, 2002
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...	;
M Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
One-way sign for Brussels shares points up on expected relief from high European rates
Greiff, Peter R. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]04 Jan 1993: PAGE C11.
Cablevision's Subscriber Gains Cheer Investors
Nat Worden and Vishesh Kumar. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Aug 2008: B.9.
Retail Brief -- Whole Foods Market Inc.: U.K. Organic-Food Retailer To Be Acquired for $38 Million
Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Jan 2004: B.4.
Investors Shaken: Policy Makers Seek Delicate Balance --- Steering a Middle Course Between Gloom on Stocks And Seeming Out of Touch
By Greg Ip and Jacob M. Schlesinger. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]22 July 2002: A.8.
Rock Island and Dividends: Must First Show Larger Earnings
Barron's (1921-1942); Boston, Mass. [Boston, Mass]14 June 1926: 20.
Show more related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Stock prices
https://search-proquest-com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398866937/81897F75C41A4EF3PQ/1?accountid=12861
3/4
3/28/2018
The Economy -- The Outlook: Poor Profits and Stocks Sow Mutual Misery - ProQuest
LJ Profits
LJ Economic statistics
LJ Securities markets
LJ Accounting procedures
LJ Stock options
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Voices of the Poor : From Many Lands
2.
Soul's Economy
3.
Management For Dummies
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2018 ProQuest LLC.
https://search-proquest-com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398866937/81897F75C41A4EF3PQ/1?accountid=12861
4/4