5/26/2017
Dow Falls Below 8000 as Bad News Mounts --- EDS Warning Adds To Corporate Woes, Fears of an Iraq War - ProQuest
More like this +
Dow Falls Below 8000 as Bad News Mounts --- EDS Warning Adds To Corporate Woes, Fears of an Iraq War
By E.S. Browning. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Sep 2002: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
On top of that came a report housing construction had fallen for August for a third straight month and Merrill Lynch had fired two senior executives for failing to cooperate with a government investigation of Enron. The news followed earlier earnings warnings from such market leaders as McDonald's and J.P. Morgan Chase, both of which are components of the Dow industrial average, and Oracle.
EDS stock fell almost 53% following its warning, and that pulled other stocks down. International Business Machines, which gets more than one-third of its revenue from the kind of computer-services business that EDS does, fell almost 7%, to its lowest level for four years. Chip-making giant Intel dropped to its lowest level in six years.
Complicating things was the fact the market today is going through a "triple witch" quarterly expiration of futures, stock options and index options, as well as an adjustment in the makeup of some stock indexes. Mr. [Robert Harrington] said stocks sagged sharply at day's end. He said some of that could have been an effort by some investors to sell before the expiration, in case the volatility commonly associated with the triple-witch expiration sends stocks down further.
Full Text Translate
A DRUMBEAT OF BAD corporate news knocked the Dow Jones Industrial Average below 8000 again, marking the first time the blue-chip average has moved below that level since hitting a four-year low July 23.
The 230.06-point, or 2.8% selloff, which means the industrial average is down 21% so far this year, has revived concern among many investors that the market's slide isn't finished. Some traders this summer had predicted stocks were hitting bottom, but a combination of corporate and economic news, the threat of war with Iraq, and yet more examples of corporate fraud have kept a turnaround at bay.
The catalyst for yesterday's decline was a warning from computer-consulting company Electronic Data Systems, which said profits and revenues would fall far short of expectations because discretionary corporate spending on technology had come "to a screeching halt."
On top of that came a report housing construction had fallen for August for a third straight month and Merrill Lynch had fired two senior executives for failing to cooperate with a government investigation of Enron. The news followed earlier earnings warnings from such market leaders as McDonald's and J.P. Morgan Chase, both of which are components of the Dow industrial average, and Oracle.
"Show me something good out there. Give me a piece of good news," said David Briggs, head of stock trading at Pittsburgh mutual-fund group Federated Investors.
He said the selling has turned into a steady grind in recent days, and that late yesterday it got so heavy he found it impossible to find buyers for some stocks. "It feels to me like more people are becoming convinced that we are heading down" further, he said.
The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 2.85%, or 35.68 points, to 1216.45, barely 10 points above the five-year low of 1206.01 it hit Aug. 5. The Nasdaq index, dominated by large technology companies, is down 38% this year, 76% off its record high of 5048.62 hit during March 2000.
The Dow industrials closed at 7942.39, a level that many investors had hoped never to see again. The industrial average is 32% off its record, also set early during 2000. It is less than 300 points above its Sept. 23 close of 7702.34.
The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gave up 3.01%, or 26.14 points, to finish at 843.32, down 27% this year and 45% off its record.
More money flowed to the safety of Treasury bonds, driving market interest rates down and sending the yield of the 10-year Treasury note to yet another 39-year low.
Investors did get a glimmer of positive news, when the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia reported strong orders and shipments among the region's manufacturers. But the bad corporate news dominated investors' thinking. What's more, another suicide bomber struck in Israel and President Bush asked Congress's authorization to "use all means" needed to oust Saddam Hussein if the Iraqi leader doesn't quickly disarm.
"One of the reasons for the stock decline is uncertainty about the war noise coming out of Washington," said Bob Bissell, president of Wells Capital Management, a moneymanagement arm of Wells Fargo & Co. "People don't like that, as we saw in the early '90s with the first Iraq" war.
The most immediate problem is companies are in the midst of what investors call "confession season," a period at the end of each quarter when companies whose earnings are going to miss investors' expectations begin issuing warnings.
"What ails the market is the lack of earnings growth," said Robert Harrington, head of listed trading at brokerage firm UBS Warburg. With major companies such as McDonald's and J.P. Morgan issuing warnings, "there's just not the catalyst to get any kind of sustained move to the upside," he said.
On top of that, brokerage firm Morgan Stanley announced its quarterly earnings had fallen for an eighth quarter in a row.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398850299/1383F7DDF6F4D8D0DF4/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017
Dow Falls Below 8000 as Bad News Mounts --- EDS Warning Adds To Corporate Woes, Fears of an Iraq War - ProQuest
EDS stock fell almost 53% following its warning, and that pulled other stocks down. International Business Machines, which gets more than one-third of its revenue from the kind of computer-services business that EDS does, fell almost 7%, to its lowest level for four years. Chip-making giant Intel dropped to its lowest level in six years.
Complicating things was the fact the market today is going through a "triple witch" quarterly expiration of futures, stock options and index options, as well as an adjustment in the makeup of some stock indexes. Mr. Harrington said stocks sagged sharply at day's end. He said some of that could have been an effort by some investors to sell before the expiration, in case the volatility commonly associated with the triple-witch expiration sends stocks down further.
He said he isn't seeing the kind of heavy volume and sell-at-any-price mentality that characterized the worst of the July selling.
Still, the great majority of stocks declined, including all 30 that make up the Dow industrials.
"There is just nothing I am paying attention to that is up more than 14 cents," said Mr. Briggs of Federated.
The market's overall value fell by 2.91%, or nearly $290 billion, during the day, leaving it at about $9.6 trillion. That is based on the market value of the companies in the Wilshire 5000 index, which includes nearly every publicly traded company with headquarters in the U.S. In all, the market has lost more than $7.4 trillion in value since stocks peaked during early 2000.
Mr. Bissell of Wells Capital said the market mood has become so negative he thinks stocks could be ready to rally before long. "As the pessimism hangs over the market and people look at the day-to-day sag in the market, it feeds on itself," he said. "This is typical of points in time that in hindsight, later on, turn out to be great times to be building positions. You close your eyes and take a position here, doing it gradually, and three years from now you will be pleasantly surprised."
In major U.S. market action:
Stocks retreated. On the Big Board, where 1.49 billion shares traded, 744 stocks rose and 2,507 fell.
Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose 21/32, or $6.5625 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, fell to 3.773%. The 30-year bond was up 21/32 to yield 4.710%.
The dollar fell. Late in New York, it traded at 121.32 yen, down from 121.74, while the euro rose against the dollar to 98.64 cents from 97.67.
(See related article: "Credit Markets: In Flight to Safety, Treasury Bonds Rise; Yields Fall to '61 Level" -- WSJ Sept. 20, 2002)
Word count: 1090
Copyright Dow Jones & Company Inc Sep 20, 2002
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Dow Jones averages
LJ Stock prices
LJ Daily markets (wsj)
Search
Ebook Central e-books
1.	— Politics in Asia : Engaging China : The Management of an Emerging Power (...
2.	Capstone Reference Ser. : Capstone Encyclopaedia of Business : The Most U...
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/398850299/1383F7DDF6F4D8D0DF4/3?accountid=14026
2/2