5/26/2017
U.S. Bailout Plan Calms Markets, But Struggle Looms Over Details - ProQuest
More like this +
U.S. Bailout Plan Calms Markets, But Struggle Looms Over Details
Solomon, Deborah j^; Paletta, Damian. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]20 Sep 2008: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Among the measures announced Friday, the Treasury temporarily extended insurance, similar to that on bank deposits, to money-market mutual funds and the Federal Reserve said it would buy commercial paper from the funds. The crisis has worsened over the past two weeks as credit downgrades, bad investments and falling stock prices have felled financial institutions such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and American International Group Inc., a huge insurer.
Full Text Translate
The nation's top economic generals pressed Congress to move with extraordinary speed -- by next week -- to authorize a plan to bail out the U.S. financial system, but are still working to iron out enormously complicated details likely to generate controversy.
Under broad outlines of the plan, the Treasury Department will request the authority to run auctions using what Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said would be "hundreds of billions" of taxpayer money to buy illiquid assets from U.S. financial institutions. The goal: to stabilize markets and allow vulnerable firms to shore up their balance sheets.
Markets soared for a second straight day on news of the discussions. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 368.75, or 3.35%. Financial stocks led the rebound. Stock markets in Asia and Europe also rose sharply. The news also helped improve credit markets: Investors poured out of the ultra-safe Treasury bond market Friday, sending yields on the three-month T-bill up to 1% after briefly touching 0% on Wednesday.
Still, though members of Congress briefed on the idea generally voiced approval, lobbyists, policymakers and financial-services executives geared up for a fight over the details.
Among the measures announced Friday, the Treasury temporarily extended insurance, similar to that on bank deposits, to money-market mutual funds and the Federal Reserve said it would buy commercial paper from the funds. The Securities and Exchange Commission, meanwhile, banned short-selling of 799 financial stocks -- a financial bet that they will fall in price -- for at least 10 days. And the Treasury said it -- along with mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, recently taken over by the government -- would step up their purchases of mortgage-backed securities to help keep the housing market afloat.
The most ambitious part of the government plan is to create a new entity to purchase impaired assets from financial firms. The process could work as a type of reverse auction, in which the government would buy from the institution that sells its assets for the lowest bid.
However, the government may find itself in a quandary: Does it pay more than fair-market value for hard-to-assess distressed assets, putting taxpayers on the hook for any losses? Or does it drive a hard bargain, buying for pennies on the dollar? The latter approach would further hurt financial institutions, since they would have to write down the losses and take additional hits to their balance sheets. The Treasury department, which hasn't commented on specifics about the plan, is expected to propose issuing debt in $50 billion tranches to fund the purchases.
"I am convinced that this bold approach will cost American families far less than the alternative -- a continuing series of financial- institution failures and frozen credit markets unable to fund economic expansion," Mr. Paulson said at a morning press conference.
Others aren't sold. Douglas Elmendorf, a senior fellow at Brookings Institution and former Treasury official, said while inaction is a risk, the Treasury's plan could cost taxpayers a huge amount of money. "This approach saddles taxpayers with significant downside risk but limited potential upside gain," Mr. Elmendorf said.
People familiar with the matter say Mr. Paulson would like the new entity, which would buy and hold the distressed assets, established within the Treasury Department. The government would hire asset managers to oversee the entity, which would buy residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities and other securities.
The Bush administration is asking Congress to approve its plan to buy distressed assets and is expected to work with Congress throughout the weekend. Details are being finalized but the administration wants authority to spend potentially hundreds of billions of dollars on these assets from financial institutions headquartered in the U.S.
Congress only has a narrow window in which to work. Leaders of both parties have pledged to move swiftly on a package. But it could face some horse trading because Democrats are expected to try to add some provisions -- and additional spending -- to help homeowners avoid foreclosure.
The moves are an effort to take a broad, systematic approach to the financial crisis after a series of incremental moves failed to stem the turmoil. The crisis has worsened over the past two weeks as credit downgrades, bad investments and falling stock prices have felled financial institutions such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and American International Group Inc., a huge insurer.
While the Treasury department awaits approval from Congress it is also moving to start buying up mortgage-backed securities through existing mechanisms. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, a division of government that is effectively running both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, immediately directed both companies to purchase more mortgage- backed securities to help fund lending markets.
The Treasury department also plans to expand a program it implemented in the wake of its takeover of Fannie and Freddie to buy up to $10 billion in mortgage-backed
securities debt issued by the companies in the open market. The Federal Reserve and the SEC also acted to stem the crisis.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399044574/138437C065A4B2A5E15/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/26/2017
U.S. Bailout Plan Calms Markets, But Struggle Looms Over Details - ProQuest
The Fed acted before U.S. markets opened, effectively coming to the rescue of the money-market mutual-fund industry. Worried that money- market mutual funds weren't
liquid enough to handle a wave of redemptions from nervous investors, the Fed said it would use its so- called discount window to lend up to $230 billion to the industry --
via commercial banks -- against illiquid asset-backed commercial paper which is widely held by money-market funds.
The asset-backed commercial paper market went through severe strain last year, because of holdings of troubled subprime mortgage debt instruments. Fed staff say that isn't a problem for the industry now, and that most of the assets backing the instruments it will lend against are auto loans and credit-card loans. The paper the Fed is financing is high-rated and Fed staff don't see it as a money-losing step.
The central bank is taking on a potentially big risk: If these assets fall in value or default, it may be on the hook, because the Fed cannot claim anything other than collateral as repayment. Officials say the assets are safe and the move is a temporary measure to provide liquidity to the market.
In another bid to provide liquidity, The Fed Friday, said it would buy short-term debt issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Federal Home Loan Banks through primary dealers. The Fed said it would buy up to $69 billion of these securities, called discount notes, to ease the crunch in the market.
The SEC ban on short selling of some financial stocks -- an attempt to stem some of the worst stock-market slides in years -- is effective immediately and will last 10 days, but could be extended for up to 30 days.
In short selling, traders borrow shares of stock and sell them, hoping the price of the shares declines and they can profit by buying them back at a lower price.
The SEC said it was acting in concert with the U.K.'s Financial Services Authority. The FSA said Thursday it would ban short selling in financial stocks until January, and would review the ban in 30 days.
Regulators in other countries quickly followed suit by tightening their own rules on short selling, including Ireland, Australia and France.
Bank of France governor Christian Noyer said Friday that the country's stock-market watchdog Autorite des Marches Financiers would move to impose new restrictions on short-selling.
Commercial banks expressed skepticism about the Treasury department plan. They fear it may prompt investors to pull their money out of banks and place it in moneymarket mutual funds, which often have higher rates of return than commercial bank savings accounts.
The Independent Community Bankers of America in a statement said it was extremely concerned about the Treasury's announced mutual-fund guaranty program. "ICBA cautions Treasury not to propose any solution to Wall Street's turmoil that will drain funding from community banks, constraining their ability to fund local economic activity and growth and serve local communities across the nation."
Jon Hilsenrath, Kara Scannell, Peter McKay, Joellen Perry, Elizabeth Rappaport, James R. Hagerty, and Cassell Bryan-Low contributed to this article.
Word count: 1349
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Financial institutions
U Federal legislation
U Securities markets
U Bailouts
U Financial services
U Federal aid
Location
LJ United States--US
Company/organization
LJ Congress
Search
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399044574/138437C065A4B2A5E15/3?accountid=14026
2/2