5/26/2017
Dow Industrials Take a 504.48-Point Dive; NYSE Trading Hits Record 8 Billion; Treasurys Surge - ProQuest
More like this +
Dow Industrials Take a 504.48-Point Dive; NYSE Trading Hits Record 8 Billion; Treasurys Surge
Tom Lauricella and Serena Ng. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]16 Sep 2008: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Stock prices fell, derivatives markets froze and investors sought the safety of government bonds as traders and investors struggled with the implications of a weekend that saw the end of two Wall Street giants. Lehman's bankruptcy is shaping up to be a test for the credit derivatives market, where banks, hedge funds and others face each other directly in insurance-like contracts tied to billions of dollars in Lehman debt.
Full Text Translate
Stock prices fell, derivatives markets froze and investors sought the safety of government bonds as traders and investors struggled with the implications of a weekend that saw the end of two Wall Street giants.
By day's end the Dow Jones Industrial Average had suffered its biggest percentage drop in more than six years.
The Dow fell 504.48 points, or 4.4%, to 10917.51, its lowest close since July 21, 2006, and 23% below its record close last Oct. 9. European markets also declined.
Stocks headed south from the opening bell. For much of the day, however, they held up better than many had expected and traders marveled at the market's resilience in the wake of the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers Holdings and the unexpected sale of Merrill Lynch.
Then in the final hour, a wave of selling swept through the market, driven by concerns about the stability of insurance giant American International Group -- whose stock dropped 60% -- and by traders forced to reset positions voided by Lehman's collapse. The turmoil sent the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow tumbling through bear-market lows set in July to levels not seen in more than two years.
The S&P 500 closed down 4.7%, or 59.00 points, at 1192.70, down 24% from its October record and its lowest close since October 2005. Its financial components fell 10.2%, the biggest decline since the sector was formed in 1989.
Amid the uncertainty on Wall Street, investors turned to the safety of government-backed debt. As prices rose, yields on three-month Treasury bills dropped to 0.864% and the two-year note's yield fell to 1.788%.
That buying was also driven by hopes that with energy and commodity prices falling -- oil was down more than 5% -- the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates Tuesday in a bid to stabilize markets.
One positive for the stock market was that despite the bankruptcy of Lehman trading generally went off without a hitch. From that standpoint, it was a "very smooth" day, said Ted Oberhaus, director of equity trading at Lord Abbett.
But investor response was different than following previous weekend events, such as the March collapse of Bear Stearns or last weekend's government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In those cases, stocks rallied strongly on hopes that the worst news was finally past.
Even long-term investors who see stocks they feel are trading at attractive levels are in no hurry to put money to work. "This past year has been a slow death for anybody
who has bought stocks," said Michael O'Rourke, chief market strategist at brokerage firm BTIG.
Still, many traders said this kind of upheaval is needed for a recovery. The problems with financials have been an overhang that keeps eating away at the market, says Todd Steinberg, head of U.S. equity trading at BNP Paribas. "There was definitely a capitulation as far as financials" at the end of the day Monday, he said.
"Perhaps . . . people can go back to the fundamentals and start to build a rally," he said, although he added that "a fundamental-based rally is going to be 'U' shaped, not 'V' shaped."
Trading volume hit a record as more than eight billion New York Stock Exchange-listed shares traded hands. Decliners outnumbered gainers more than 17-to-1.
The bond markets, too, wrestled with the implications of the weekend's events, especially Lehman's collapse. Trading volumes in bonds and derivatives were unusually light, traders said, as dealers and other firms were unwilling to take on additional risk.
In a sign that financial institutions were unwilling to lend to each other, the overnight London interbank offered rate jumped to 3.106% from 2.146% on Friday. At one point during the day, the federal-funds rate traded as high as 6.5%, well above its 2% target rate.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399117481/138436B025D72728A50/3?accountid=14026
1/2
Lehman's bonds tumbled on the Chapter 11 filing, with most issues falling to around 30 cents on the dollar from more than 80 cents Friday, on expectations that investors will recover only a fraction of their principal.
Some investors tried to protect themselves by buying credit default swaps tied to the obligations of investment banks, insurance companies and other corporations,
pushing the cost of default insurance sharply higher and well above levels in March. The Markit CDX index, a widely- traded bundle of swaps tied to North American
companies saw its cost of protection rise to $195,000 annually for $10 million in debt, versus $152,500 on Friday, according to Phoenix Partners Group.
5/26/2017
Dow Industrials Take a 504.48-Point Dive; NYSE Trading Hits Record 8 Billion; Treasurys Surge - ProQuest
Lehman's bankruptcy is shaping up to be a test for the credit derivatives market, where banks, hedge funds and others face each other directly in insurance-like contracts tied to billions of dollars in Lehman debt. Lehman's bankruptcy filing will trigger sizable cash payouts from institutions that had sold credit default swaps on Lehman's debt. It wasn't immediately clear if hedge funds and smaller firms that sold the swaps will be able to come up with the cash to pay holders of these insurance-like contracts.
Amid that uncertainty, trading in the fixed-income derivatives markets nearly ground to a halt, as dealers were unwilling to take on additional risk, especially while prices were volatile.
Many firms also were busy sorting out trades they had with Lehman as a counter-party and trying to determine what they were owed across their positions. These firms also have to decide which positions to replace by buying new swaps from other counterparties, which could cost a lot more if markets remain in turmoil.
"There are many investors that used Lehman Brothers as an 'insurance company,'" says Anthony Lendez, partner at BDO Consulting. He adds that Lehman's bankruptcy could lead to write-downs at many of its counterparties.
Liz Rappaport contributed to this article.
(See related article: "Goldman, Morgan Now Stand Alone; Fight On or Fold?" -- WSJ September 16, 2008)
Word count: 970
(c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Dow Jones averages
LJ Stock prices
LJ Daily markets (wsj)
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits
Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/399117481/138436B025D72728A50/3?accountid=14026
2/2