5/30/2017
U.S. Stocks Post Strong Gains - ProQuest
More like this +
U.S. Stocks Post Strong Gains
Russolillo, Steven. Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]24 Aug 2011: n/a.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
NEW YORK--U.S. stocks notched a third straight day of gains as an upbeat durable goods report set a positive tone while investors await Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's highly anticipated speech later this week.
Full Text Translate
NEW YORK--U.S. stocks notched a third straight day of gains as an upbeat durable goods report set a positive tone while investors await Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's highly anticipated speech later this week.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 143.95 points, or 1.29%, to 11320.71. All but one of the Dow's 30 components closed higher.
Bank of America led blue-chip gains, surging 69 cents, or 11%, to $6.99. The stock had been battered in recent weeks amid worries over mortgage litigation woes and the possibility of more capital raises. But analysts say the bank is much sounder now than it was before the financial crisis.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 15.25 points, or 1.31%, to 1177.60. Financial and utility stocks registered the biggest gains in a broad rally. All 10 of the S&P 500's sectors rose. The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite rose 21.63 points, or 0.88%, to 2467.69.
The recent gains comes as investors hope Mr. Bernanke's much-awaited speech on Friday will offer clues on how the central bank prepares to combat the slowing economy. That optimism may be fleeting, however, as the Fed hasn't given signs that it's ready to enact additional stimulative measures.
"There will be a lot of nervousness between now and Friday," said Peter Tuz, president at Chase Investment Counsel. "I'm not expecting very much from the Fed. We're kind of trapped. We can't stimulate the economy anymore as affectively as we're used to."
Stocks got a jolt early Wednesday as demand for long-lasting manufactured goods bounced back in July, giving the fragile economy a much-needed boost.
Orders for factory goods rose by 4.0% from the prior month to $201.45 billion, according to the Commerce Department. However, orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft, which economists use to gauge business spending on new equipment, dropped by 1.5%.
The blue-chip Dow has surged 4.7% this week, including Tuesday's 322-point rally, as investors hope Mr. Bernanke will hint at some sort of monetary stimulus during his scheduled speech in Jackson Hole, Wyo.
Bleak economic news, including some dismal regional manufacturing reports, disappointing housing news and stubbornly high unemployment, may give fuel for Mr. Bernanke to be more open to new measures.
"It's almost as if negative news is being priced in as something positive because it underscores the argument that the Fed needs to do something," said Abigail Huffman, director of research for Russell Investments. "People are hedging their bets. They're hoping for the best and positioning for the worst."
At the same time, investors are unclear as to what the central bank may have in store for the struggling economy. Some say Mr. Bernanke will likely use the speech to elaborate on the Fed's economic outlook rather than break new ground and announce a third round of quantitative easing, or QE3.
"If what he outlines is underwhelming, you could get a selloff," Gary Flam, portfolio manager at Los Angeles-based Bel Air Investment Advisors. "The risk is to the downside. There's more of a chance that he disappoints than provides a coherent strategy for how the Fed can manage the weak economy."
Gold futures dropped $104 and fell below $1800 in a dramatic reversal from a record-setting run. The precious metal extended declines from a record $1,917.90 hit during Tuesday trade on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Write to Steven Russolillo at steven.russolillo@dowjones.com
Credit: By Steven Russolillo
Word count: 562
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
Search ProQuest...				;
W Cite	9 Email	P Save		
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/885061315/138491204B047520C60/3?accountid=14026
1/1