6/28/2017
Investors Go on the Risk Offensive --- Central Banks Spur Broad Global Rally But Caution Persists - ProQuest
1Back to results	More like this +
Investors Go on the Risk Offensive --- Central Banks Spur Broad Global Rally But Caution Persists
Lauricella, Tom; Russolillo, Steven. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]01 Dec 2011: C.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
Hide highlighting
Global efforts by central banks to ease stresses on the world's banks drove financial markets sharply higher and sent U.S. stocks to their biggest gain since they emerged from the financial crisis. The rally touched virtually every corner of the financial markets, from stocks to commodities to the euro, in a sign that, at least for a day, investors were prepared to abandon their recent defensive stance and bet on a resolution of the many problems plaguing developed economies.
Full Text Translate
Global efforts by central banks to ease stresses on the world's banks drove financial markets sharply higher and sent U.S. stocks to their biggest gain since they emerged from the financial crisis.
The rally touched virtually every corner of the financial markets, from stocks to commodities to the euro, in a sign that, at least for a day, investors were prepared to abandon their recent defensive stance and bet on a resolution of the many problems plaguing developed economies.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average recorded its biggest day of gains since March 23, 2009, jumping 490.05 points, or 4.2%, to 12045.68. In Europe, France's CAC-40 index and Germany's DAX surged. Commodities also rallied, and crude oil rose back above $100 a barrel.
The biggest boost for sentiment came from a concerted effort by the Federal Reserve and other central banks to make it less costly for European banks to borrow U.S. dollars, an issue that had been a source of concern in recent weeks.
That news Wednesday came not long after the People's Bank of China announced it would lower reserve requirements for banks, the first such step since 2008. While the easing was relatively modest in scope, analysts said it reflected a determination by the Chinese government to address a slowing in economic growth before any slump became too deep.
While investors and analysts said the day's events were positive developments, many remain cautious, especially when it comes to the underlying fiscal problems in
Europe.
In addition, the buying in stocks, euros and other riskier investments was described as largely the reversal of short-term bearish bets rather than long-term investors voicing optimism about the outlook.
Some said sentiment had become so poor last week, with talk reaching a fever pitch about the breakup of the euro zone, that markets were ready for a bounce.
Wednesday's move was "not a game changer," said Michael Krautzberger, head of the European fixed-income team for BlackRock. Still, he said it does suggest that the European Central Bank soon will be moving more aggressively to deal with the crisis.
And the European bond market still is showing signs that the coast isn't clear. Yields are down, but they remain much higher than just a few weeks ago. Importantly, shortterm Italian debt is yielding almost as much as longer-term debt, suggesting investors still are pricing in a restructuring of the country's debt.
Contributing to that reversal of bearish bets appeared to be a desire to exit positions ahead of Friday's U.S. employment report for November. News on the U.S. economy has been better than expected: U.S. manufacturing was stronger than forecast and holiday sales also are buoyant. On Wednesday, a report showed private businesses increased hiring in November.
Wednesday's rally began shortly after the closing bell in Asia, where markets were hit hard by fears over Europe's debt problems and fading expectations of monetary stimulus. The Shanghai Composite fell 3.3% to a five-week low, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng index shed 1.5%. The momentum shifted in the European midday, when news from China pushed stocks into positive territory. A second jump came after the news of the coordinated central-bank action. Germany's DAX index surged 5%. The U.K.'s FTSE 100 rose 3.2% and France's CAC-40 rose 4.2%.
In the U.S., the Dow's gain enabled the index to close in positive territory for November.
Treasurys dropped, pushing the yield on the 10-year note to a one-month high of 2.065%. The euro rallied 1% against the greenback to finish at $1.3445.
Copper, an industrial metal closely tied to global growth, advanced 5.5%, while silver added 2.8% and gold rose 1.9%.
Early Thursday in Asia, stocks continued to surge, with financial shares leading broad gains. Hong Kong shares jumped 5.5% to notch their biggest rally since Oct. 6, while China's Shanghai Composite advanced 3.6%. Japan's Nikkei Stock Average rose 2.1%, Australia's S&P/ASX 200 climbed 2.3%, and South Korea's Kospi Composite jumped 3.7%.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/906939375/E6722C445EDF4BA1PQ/3?accountid=12861
1/2
The big driver of the rally that began Wednesday was the announcement by the Federal Reserve, European Central Bank and central banks of Japan, the U.K., Canada and
Switzerland that they would cut the cost of tapping emergency dollar loans by half a percentage point.
6/28/2017
Investors Go on the Risk Offensive --- Central Banks Spur Broad Global Rally But Caution Persists - ProQuest
At the same time, analysts said the action, along with the ECB's announcement that it was cutting the amount of collateral required from banks seeking loans, should help lower rates for banks to borrow dollars. "It's gone from a punitive level of pricing to something that's less daunting," said Ned Rumpeltin, currency strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in London.
Next week, many analysts expect that the ECB will cut interest rates at its meeting on Dec. 8 and may announce more steps to ease strains for European banks. The next day, European officials are scheduled to hold a summit.
Jonathan Cheng contributed to this article.
(See related article: "Wall Street Pushed Federal Reserve For Europe Action" -- WSJ December 1, 2011)
Credit: By Tom Lauricella and Steven Russolillo
Word count: 828
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest...
;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Stock prices
LJ Dow Jones averages
LJ Daily markets (wsj)
>
Search
Provided by Northwestern University Library *** Get online help from Northwestern University Library
Contact Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Credits Copyright © 2017 ProQuest LLC.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/906939375/E6722C445EDF4BA1PQ/3?accountid=12861
2/2