5/30/2017
Ominous Opening for September - ProQuest
More like this +
Ominous Opening for September
Cheng, Jonathan. Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Sep 2011: n/a.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
The declines came as bond investors interpreted the dour jobs data as bolstering the case for some action from the Fed, most likely the Fed shifting the maturity profile of its holdings of Treasury debt into longer-dated bonds.
Full Text Translate
Stocks tumbled on Friday, marking the approach of fall with the worst start to September since 1974.
Investors sent stocks and Treasury yields sharply lower as a dismal jobs report reignited concerns about a slip back into recession.
The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 253.31 points, or 2.20%, to 11240.26, falling by triple digits for a second day in a row. The day's steep drop was the biggest one-day slide in more than two weeks.
September is historically the worst month on the calendar for stocks and this particular September also is shaping up to be a rocky one, coming after four consecutive months of declines and persistent worries on Europe and the U.S. economy.
A number of key dates loom on the calendar, including a series of parliamentary votes across the European Union's member states on a fresh bailout for Greece. A closely watched meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee and a major policy address by President Obama also are at the forefront of investors' minds.
Many of these worries drove stock-market action on Friday. The jobs report showed the U.S. labor market coming to a virtual standstill in August, stoking concerns about a recession. European fears also rose ahead of the votes on a second Greek bailout, which sent stock markets there sharply lower. Regulatory concerns about the health of U.S. banks and the prospect of lawsuits regarding their mortgage-related practices punished bank stocks.
"These are three major negatives that increase uncertainty ahead of a three-day weekend, and it comes after a nice rally. No one wants to take a position going into a long weekend," said Kent Engelke, chief economic strategist at Capitol Securities Management.
All 10 sectors of the S&P 500 and all 30 of the Dow components finished in negative territory, with all but seven of the S&P 500 stocks falling. The losses put the Dow and the S&P 500 into negative territory for the week, following a four-day winning streak.
Before the opening bell, U.S. stock futures were sharply lower, taking a cue from European markets still weighing concerns over sovereign-debt issues on the continent. The Stoxx Europe 600 fell 2.4% and the German DAX index tumbled 3.4% after Greece's finance minister said the economy was expected to shrink more than expected and amid growing concerns over the country's ability to meet its deficit targets.
In the U.S., stock futures took a further tumble after the Bureau of Labor Statistics said the struggling U.S. economy failed to add jobs for the first time in almost a year as the unemployment rate remained stuck at 9.1%. The report was the worst result since September 2010, and fell well short of expectations for 80,000 jobs. Data for the previous two months were also revised down by a total of 58,000.
"The jobs number adds weight to the notion that we've been in a recession for four to five months," said Jerry Harris, president and chief investment officer at Sterne Agee Asset Management.
With the sharp declines, investor attention turned toward the Federal Reserve's policy-setting meeting later in the month and toward President Barack Obama, who is set to deliver a new jobs plan on Thursday. Even so, investors looked towards both events with cynicism.
"If Bernanke comes up with a package of quantitative easing, the fear it creates could be larger than the confidence," said Benjy Schwartz, chief market strategist at retail brokerage Lightspeed Financial. As for the federal government, "people are going to see if the president can pull something out, but I wouldn't look for that to be a massive game-changer. I think this volatility is here to stay."
Amid the stock selling, the yield on 10-year Treasury bills fell to 2.000%. That is the lowest it has been in the history of modern Treasury operations, eclipsing even the low levels seen during some of the worst of the financial crisis.
The declines came as bond investors interpreted the dour jobs data as bolstering the case for some action from the Fed, most likely the Fed shifting the maturity profile of its holdings of Treasury debt into longer-dated bonds. Fed officials have mentioned such an operation as one of the options they have at their disposal to help the economy.
As a result, investors rushed into longer-term U.S. Treasury debt, in the hopes of getting in front of any possible Fed buying.
"After the payroll report today, you just saw the long end take off and it just continued all day," said Justin Lederer, an analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald in New York.
Prices for the 30-year Treasury bond moved sharply higher, pulling down the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, to 3.310%. Yields on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note dropped sharply, and toward the end of the day fell below the psychologically important 2% barrier. In recent memory, 10-year yields on Japanese debt have
been pretty much the only ones below 2% from a large established bond market. The Japanese economy has been struggling for more than a decade.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/887696814/Record/138491A48DF1576BDC9/3?accountid=12861
1/2
5/30/2017
Ominous Opening for September - ProQuest
Yields at these low levels likely are a poor sign for the U.S. economy. "It means either that the market sees the economy continuing to slip or that the Fed is going to push
real rates lower to prevent the economy from skidding further," said Jim Vogel, interest-rate strategist at FTN Financial.
Investor jitters sent gold futures up nearly $50, to about $1,873.70 an ounce, while crude-oil futures fell 2.8% to $86.45 a barrel. The U.S. dollar gained against the euro but slipped against the yen.
Financial stocks led the broad retreat, with Bank of America plunging 66 cents, or 8.3%, to $7.25 a share to lead the Dow decliners. The move came after The Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. regulators asked the Dow component to show what measures it could take if conditions for the bank worsened. Bank of America is now down 46% this year.
Other bank giants fell after reports that the U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is preparing to sue some of the nation's largest banks over soured mortgage bonds in a bid to recoup billions of dollars in losses from the failed investments. J.P. Morgan Chase declined 1.67, or 4.6%, to 34.63; Goldman Sachs Group dropped 5.10, or 4.6%, to 107.06 and Citigroup lost 1.60, or 5.3%, to 28.40. Hewlett-Packard also suffered, falling 1.33, or 5.2%, to 24.34, bringing its slide this year to 42%.
Elsewhere, Netflix slumped 20.16, or 8.6%, to 213.11 after Starz Entertainment ended contract renewal negotiations with the company. H&R Block fell 1.77, or 12%, to 13.41 to lead the S&P 500 decliners after the tax preparer's fiscal first-quarter loss widened on charges related to a proposed asset sale.
Janus Capital Group fell 55 cents, or 7.7%, to 6.61 as the asset manager missed revenue expectations and called the previous quarter a challenging one for key fundamental equity strategies. Janus, one of the most equity-focused firms among its asset-manager peers, has been particularly vulnerable to equity outflows and investors searching for greater return elsewhere. Average assets under management were also lower.
Campbell Soup fell 40 cents, or 1.3%, to 31.46.
Matt Phillips contributed to this article.
Credit: By Jonathan Cheng
Word count: 1206
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
LJ Recessions
U Stock prices
U Dow Jones averages
U Investments
U Treasury operations
Location
U United States--US
Search
Ebook Central e-books
Opening Statements
2.	September 11 in Popular Culture : A Guide
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/887696814/Record/138491A48DF1576BDC9/3?accountid=12861
2/2