5/30/2017
Rally Masks Real Fears; Investors Express Little Confidence in Policy Makers to Tackle Real Problems - ProQuest
More like this +
Rally Masks Real Fears; Investors Express Little Confidence in Policy Makers to Tackle Real Problems
Lauricella, Tom; Silver-Greenberg, Jessica. Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]10 Aug 2011: n/a.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text
Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
[...] even as the stock market rallied, yields on 10-year Treasurys fell to record lows, a sign that investors expect the economy to remain weak .
Full Text Translate
A day after a scary plunge, financial markets got a boost Tuesday from the Federal Reserve's pledge to keep interest rates low.
But the much-needed rally, coming in another wild, skittish session that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average seesawing, did little to erase investors' underlying fear: Can policy makers manage the significant headwinds buffeting European and American economies?
A promise by the Fed to keep rates "exceptionally low" until 2013 and some new, but vague, language about the "tools" at the central bank's disposal to stimulate the economy was enough to spark a 430-point gain in the Dow Jones Industrial Average--a partial recovery after the benchmark index had dropped more than 1,000 points in the previous three trading days.
While the Fed's move may have stanched the bleeding in the stock markets and soothed frayed nerves, investors questioned its impact on the real economy, with interest rates already having been at rock bottom for nearly three years.
"Whatever benefit you would usually get [from lower Treasury yields] is diminished," says Eric Lascelles, chief economist at RBC Asset Management, which manages roughly $250 billion.
In fact, even as the stock market rallied, yields on 10-year Treasurys fell to record lows, a sign that investors expect the economy to remain weak .
"The Fed has spent a lot of its bullets," says Mead Briggs, a retired investor who headed up bond trading desks on Wall Street for many years. "The real focus lies on what's going on with the political side of the equation. That's where the problem needs to get solved, not what the Fed does."
While the credibility of policy makers has historically been a concern for emerging-markets investors, it is unusual for political fears to play such a big role in market sentiment in the world's largest economies.
Yet the erosion in confidence in the ability of political and monetary authorities to handle the challenges posed by U.S. and European economies saddled with massive loads of debt has been at the root of the market's latest bout of turmoil.
On one side of the ledger, investors express frustration with the perceived unwillingness among government officials on both continents to make necessary choices that would be unpopular in the short-term with voters.
In the U.S., the flashpoint among investors was the political acrimony over raising the debt ceiling. As the clock ticked down toward a possible default, investors voiced disbelief that not only had the fight dragged on but that it was resulting in a budget reduction plan that fell far short of the "Grand Bargain" that had seemed within reach just a week before.
The disappointment at the debt-ceiling deal was amplified by last week's decision by Standard & Poor's to strip the U.S. of its triple-A credit rating for the first time ever.
For Mandy Williams, the wrangling over the debt ceiling was the last straw. The 54-year old entrepreneur, who largely manages her own investments, worries that politicians lack the courage to legislate real sacrifice and savings. Ms. Williams, who lives in Houston, moved roughly $10,000 from growth stocks to gold last week. "There's simply no political will to improve jobs or employment," she says.
In Europe, the frustration has been building for months, spreading from the continent's periphery to the core economies of Spain and Italy.
A challenge as big as the European debt crisis "requires leadership and coordination and we just haven't gotten that," says Michael Story, a London-based economist at Western Asset Management.
The second loss of confidence is in the ability of central banks to do much more to shelter investors, businesses and consumers from the pain of massive overhangs of debt.
"Policy makers have been scratching the bottom of the barrel," says RBC's Mr. Lascelles. "The capacity of monetary policy to deliver [relief] is fading."
Aside from the debt ceiling fight, the issues driving the recent loss of confidence have been swirling since even before the 2008 financial crisis.
In 2008, governments and central bankers were able to step in to provide liquidity and shore up confidence, albeit with missteps along the way. This time around, investors
sense there is no quick fix.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/881899482/13848E05F3241E6CFE6/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Rally Masks Real Fears; Investors Express Little Confidence in Policy Makers to Tackle Real Problems - ProQuest
"We've gone through the denial phase and we've been seeing some of the anger phase but we're not quite in the acceptance phase," says Stephen Cucchiaro, chief investment officer at Boston based Windhaven Investment Management, which manages $6.6 billion.
Mr. Cucchiaro says he views the current crisis as an opportunity for elected officials to deal with structural fiscal problems in the U.S. when it comes to both entitlements and the tax code. "Both sides need to come together," he says. "But no-one is doing that."
Housing and the jobs market are two areas where investors say government help is needed. Both have remained troubled despite the Fed's moves.
Part of the problem for political leaders, some investors say, is that they have not yet come to grips with the new economic environment.
"We've had twenty years of pretty strong and less volatile economic growth," says Peter Fisher, global head of fixed income at BlackRock Inc. "It's really hard for politicians to adjust to lower and more volatile economic growth than they are used to."
Write to Tom Lauricella at tom.lauricella@wsj.com
Credit: By Tom Lauricella And Jessica Silver-Greenberg
Word count: 880
(c) 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
n
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Interest rates
U Stock exchanges
U Investments
U Growth stocks
LJ Ammunition
Search
Ebook Central e-books
3. BIGGER ISN’T ALWAYS BETTER
Masks and Mirrors : Generation X and the Chameleon Personality
Real Screenwriting : Strategies and Stories from the Trenches
Bigger Isn't Always Better : The New Mindset for Real Business Growth
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/881899482/13848E05F3241E6CFE6/3?accountid=14026
2/2