5/30/2017
Fresh Budget Fights Brewing --- Markets Breathe Sigh of Relief After Fiscal Clash, but Tax-and-Cut Battles Loom - ProQuest
More like this + Fresh Budget Fights Brewing --- Markets Breathe Sigh of Relief After Fiscal Clash, but Tax-and-Cut Battles Loom
Paletta, Damian. Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]03 Jan 2013: A.1.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Full text Abstract/Details
Abstract Translate
By raising tax rates on upper-income Americans and limiting certain deductions for those households, among other things, the law that Mr. Obama is expected to sign within days is estimated to reduce budget deficits by about $737 billion over 10 years from what the Congressional Budget Office projected it would otherwise be, the White House said Wednesday.
Full Text Translate
The completion of a tax deal between the White House and Congress sent stocks soaring Wednesday, but the sense of relief belied the fact that more tax-and-spending brinkmanship is expected as soon as February.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average shot up 308.41 points, or 2.35%, to close at 13412.55 -- its best day in more than a year -- on top of Monday's preholiday gain of 1.3%.
In Washington, the mood was distinctly less ebullient. There was muted satisfaction that Congress had sent to President Barack Obama legislation to avoid sudden tax increases and spending cuts that threatened to provoke a recession. The president signed the legislation into law on Wednesday.
Moody's Investors Service, one of the firms that rate government debt, said Wednesday that the agreement didn't do enough to reduce the deficit.
If Congress doesn't do more in the coming months, Moody's warned, the company could follow Standard & Poor's in downgrading U.S. debt. "Further measures that bring about a downward debt trajectory over the medium term are likely to be needed to support the AAA rating," Moody's said Wednesday.
But the battles on how to do that are far from over. Republicans say any further deficit reduction or legislation to avoid across-the-board spending cuts should come from reducing spending. President Obama and many Democrats advocate a combination of tax increases and spending cuts.
The most serious skirmish will arrive toward the end of February, when the U.S. Treasury is expected to be unable to pay all the government's bills unless Congress boosts the federal borrowing limit.
Then on March 1, the across-the-board spending cuts of the fiscal cliff, deferred in this week's deal, are scheduled to begin slicing into military and domestic programs.
And on March 27, a government shutdown looms unless Congress approves funding for government operations for the remainder of the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.
In the wake of the tensions and recriminations of the fiscal-cliff battles, lawmakers and analysts see another last-minute showdown as almost inevitable.
The eventual agreement, opposed by a majority of House Republicans, left bruises on nearly all the major players and did nothing to foster an atmosphere in which compromises are likely.
The 11th-hour passage of the agreement crafted by Senate Republican leaders and the White House eliminated the most threatening economic cloud hanging over the economy. But it made only a dent in the long-term deficit.
"We shouldn't be sitting here slapping ourselves on the back for a great job. It didn't really do anything to address our long-term debt problem," said David Cote, chief executive of Honeywell International and a leader of a business coalition pushing for deficit-reduction. "All it did was address the fiscal-cliff problem and set us up for a debt-ceiling debacle."
Russ Koesterich, global chief investment strategist for BlackRock, called the deal "a stopgap, not a solution" in a note to clients, arguing that the deal's "limited scope and the need for additional negotiations will likely translate into increased volatility for financial markets." "Expect more late-night drama from Washington in the coming months," Mr. Koesterich said.
By raising tax rates on upper-income Americans and limiting certain deductions for those households, among other things, the law that Mr. Obama is expected to sign within days is estimated to reduce budget deficits by about $737 billion over 10 years from what the Congressional Budget Office projected it would otherwise be, the White House said Wednesday.
About $104 billion of that comes from interest savings because the government will be borrowing less; nearly all the rest comes from higher taxes.
The next -- and potentially most ominous -- hurdle is the need to raise the $16.394 trillion debt ceiling.
If Congress doesn't boost it soon, the government -- which is spending far more than it takes in -- won't be able to pay all its bills. Analysts have warned in recent days that
the political showdown over whether and how to raise the debt ceiling could be bitter and fuel market volatility, an echo of an August 2011 showdown over the borrowing
limit. The Treasury Department has begun taking steps to buy additional time, such as halting contributions to federal pension funds, but analysts say it will run out of
maneuvering room in February.
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/1266137781/1828409799164558PQ/3?accountid=14026
1/2
5/30/2017
Fresh Budget Fights Brewing --- Markets Breathe Sigh of Relief After Fiscal Clash, but Tax-and-Cut Battles Loom - ProQuest
Mr. Obama has said he wants to work with Republicans on further deficit-reduction measures, including slowing the growth of federal spending on Medicare and other benefits. But he says he won't negotiate over the debt ceiling which, he said, reflects money Congress has already spent.
"If Congress refuses to give the United States government the ability to pay these bills on time, the consequences for the entire global economy would be catastrophic -- far worse than the impact of a fiscal cliff," Mr. Obama said Tuesday.
Republican leaders, though, see the debt ceiling as a lever to get Mr. Obama to agree to reduce federal spending. "The Speaker's position is clear: any increase in the debt limit must be matched by spending cuts or reforms that exceed the increase," said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner (R., Ohio). "The president knows that."
And Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R, Ky.), calling for "a serious effort to reduce Washington's out-of-control spending," described the debt-ceiling vote in a statement Wednesday as "an immediate opportunity to act . . . to put our country back on a sound financial footing."
But Republican hopes of focusing exclusively on the debt ceiling are now complicated by pressure to avert across-the-board spending cuts that were written into law in August 2011 to try to force a broader deficit-reduction effort. The New Year's Day agreement replaced the first two months of those cuts, known as a "sequester." The remaining $88 billion in cuts are scheduled to kick in on March 1.
"Congress has delayed the worst possible outcome by delaying sequestration for two months," Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said Wednesday. "Unfortunately, the cloud of sequestration remains. Congress cannot continue to just kick the can down the road."
Congress and the White House also confront the threat of a partial government shutdown at the end of March because Congress last year agreed to fund the government only through March 27. Without action, many federal employees could be furloughed. There hasn't been such a shutdown since the 1990s, but Washington has come close in recent years as talks dragged on until the final day.
Kate Linebaugh, Dion Nissenbaum and Jonathan Cheng contributed to this article.
Subscribe to WSJ:
Credit: By Damian Paletta
Word count: 1086
(c) 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
More like this
Search ProQuest... z	;
W Cite
9 Email
P Save
LJ Add to Selected items
Related items
Search with indexing terms
Subject
U Tax increases
U Agreements
U Tax rates
U Recessions
U Stock prices
LJ Dow Jones averages
LJ Budget deficits
LJ Fiscal policy
Location
U United States--US
People
U Obama, Barack
Company/organization
U Congress
LJ Moodys Investors Service Inc
LJ Standard & Poors Corp
LJ Honeywell International Inc
http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/1266137781/1828409799164558PQ/3?accountid=14026
2/2