Dow Industrials Plunge Into Correction; Bluechip index falls more than 1,000 points and is now down more than 10% from its January high Otani, Akane; Sindreu, Jon . Wall Street Journal (Online) ; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Feb 2018: n/a.
ProQuest document link
FULL TEXT
The Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 entered correction territory for the first time in two years on Thursday as worries about rising interest rates and newfound volatility continued to rattle the markets.
The Dow hadn't been in a correction--a decline of at least 10% from a recent high--since February 2016. And traders were bracing for more upheaval.
"We opened around the highest levels of the day and closed at the lows, and that's telling us the sellers aren't quite done yet," said Jonathan Corpina, senior managing partner at broker-dealer Meridian Equity Partners.
Stocks spent much of the session Thursday deep in the red as a shaky day in the bond market appeared to spill over into equities. But stocks' losses escalated near the end of the trading day, with the blue-chip index falling more than 400 points in the final 30 minutes of the session.
The Dow ended down 1,032.89 points, or 4.1%, to 23860.46. The plunge marks the second-steepest point decline on record, after Monday's 1,175.21-point swoon. In percentage terms, however, neither drop ranks among the 100 biggest one-day plunges on record.
Mr. Corpina said the pace of Thursday's declines, at hundred-point intervals, seemed to be driven by large sell orders from institutional investors, as well as by algorithmic orders triggered after major indexes broke through certain levels.
The S&P 500 fell 100.66 points, or 3.8%, to 2581.00 and is now down more than 10% from its record close on Jan. 26. The Nasdaq Composite dropped 274.82 points, or 3.9%, to 6777.16 and is off 9.7% from its recent high, also on Jan. 26.
Some money managers speculated that the market continues to be pressured by a crash in volatility-related bets from earlier in the week when investors, who piled into funds and vehicles that bet against market swings, contended with steep losses. Volatility returned in force to the market this week as Wall Street's fear gauge--the Cboe Volatility Index, or VIX--posted its biggest-ever one-day percentage increase.
The phenomenon that manifested in the VIX will now ripple across many other investors, especially hedge funds, said Nigol Koulajian, chief investment officer at Quest Partners LLC, a New York-based investment firm that offers clients protection against market crashes.
Thursday marked the fifth consecutive session that the Dow swung more than 500 points intraday from its high to its low. The return of volatility struck some investors as long overdue, rather than a threat to the stock rally, especially as an unusually long streak of calm trading lifted major indexes around the world to multiyear highs in 2017.
Analysts expect corporate earnings will keep rising and economic growth around the world will accelerate, factors they say should help the stock market keep climbing over the long term.
"I'm definitely in the camp that says this is a healthy correction," said Joe Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM US LLP, who remains optimistic and hasn't changed any of his forecasts after the rout.
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
Meanwhile, the 10-year Treasury yield has climbed above 2.85% twice in the past week, and stocks have
subsequently declined after both occurrences. Most analyst forecasts, however, say yields would need to reach 3%
to 3.5% to threaten the nearly nine-year bull run in stocks.
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose to 2.851%, near its highest level since early 2014, from 2.843% on Wednesday. The benchmark rate is used as a gauge to help set borrowing costs for companies, home loans and state and local governments.
Fears that a pickup in growth and inflation could force central banks to raise rates more quickly than expected have driven government-bond yields higher for months. That, in turn, can pressure stock prices as interest payments from fixed-income investments could become more attractive than stock dividends.
Similar concerns sparked the tumble in stocks last week, when data showed U.S. wage growth accelerating at the fastest rate since 2009--something some analysts said was a sign that long-dormant inflation could be picking up. Since then, stocks have taken a wild ride down--the Dow and S&P 500 are off 3.5% for the year.
"I don't think [rising rates] will break the back of the equity markets, but I do think they'll be a headwind," said Mark Heppenstall, chief investment officer at Penn Mutual Asset Management, who noted the yield on the 10-year Treasury note has risen in the past five weeks at a faster pace than he had expected heading into 2018.
Others warn that a sharp rise in yields could undermine the corporate earnings growth that helped U.S. stocks climb to records over and over again.
"Earnings are no doubt a huge positive, as is economic growth, which is globally very strong, but the cost of money has to rise if growth is to be that good," said Barry Bannister, a managing director at Stifel Nicolaus. "That resets our expectations as investors."
A burst of corporate earnings reports drove moves in individual stocks in the U.S. Twitter Inc. shares jumped $3.27, or 12%, to $30.18--its highest closing level since 2015--after the social-media company reported its first profitable quarter as a publicly traded company, while T-Mobile US Inc. shares fell 3.18, or 5.1%, to 58.88 after the wireless carrier posted lower-than-expected quarterly sales.
In the commodities markets, U.S. crude oil fell 1% to $61.15 a barrel, extending declines after logging its biggest four-day percentage loss since May. Crude has come under pressure this week as data has pointed to a jump in U.S. production and rising inventories.
Markets outside the U.S. remained jittery Thursday. In Asia, the U.S. dollar gained nearly 1% against the yuan at the end of onshore trading--the biggest increase since the People's Bank of China devalued the currency in August 2015--after Chinese trade data showed that the country's trade surplus narrowed sharply in January.
Daniel Kruger contributed to this article.
Write to Akane Otani at akane.otani@wsj.com and Jon Sindreu at jon.sindreu@wsj.com
Related
* Global Stock Slump Marches On
* Investors Shed Long-Term Bonds
* Emerging Markets Weather the Selloff
* Market Turmoil Triggers Huge Exodus From Equity Funds
* Stock Slides Likely Making Bank of Japan More Cautious
* Economists Stick With Optimistic U.S. Outlook
* Heard on the Street: Don't Buy the Dip in Bonds
* Is This Obscure Wall Street Invention Responsible for the Selloff?
* Streetwise: A Historical Tie Breaks but Trouble Still Lurks
Credit: By Akane Otani and Jon Sindreu
DETAILS
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
Subject:	Securities markets; Stock exchanges; Investment advisors
Location:	New Zealand Australia United States--US Japan South Korea
Company / organization:	Name: Rio Tinto Group; NAICS: 212112, 212291; Name: BHP Billiton; NAICS: 211111, 212231, 212234
Publication title:	Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
Pages:	n/a
Publication year:	2018
Publication date:	Feb 8, 2018
column:	U.S. Markets
Section:	Markets
Publisher:	Dow Jones &Company Inc
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	Business And Economics
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	1997808784
Document URL:	https://search.proquest.com/docview/1997808784?accountid=14026
Copyright:	(c) 2018 Dow Jones &Company, Inc. Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction or distribution is prohibited without permission.
Last updated:	2018-02-09
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS
Check SFX for Availability
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
Database copyright © 2018 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4