Warning Signals Flash, and Shares Plunge
Phillips, Matt. New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]15 Aug 2019:
B.2.
c^ProQuest document link
Trade-war worries hammered financial markets again on Wednesday as data from Germany and China showed
trouble for manufacturing-reliant economies, while the bond market renewed fears of an American recession.
Stocks and commodities tumbled in Europe and the United States as risk-averse investors raced to the safety of
government bonds, pushing bond prices sharply higher and yields, which move in the opposite direction, to low
levels not seen in years.
On Wall Street, the S&P 500 fell 2.93 percent, led by a steep drop in the energy sector. Retail shares fell sharply
after Macy's posted lower quarterly results. Shares of large technology companies, sensitive to the outlook for the
trade war, also fell. Stock benchmarks in Europe also dropped.
In early trading on Thursday, Japan's Nikkei index dropped 1.3 percent, but markets in Asia appeared to be
stabilizing, with the Hang Seng in Hong Kong dropping by less than half a percentage point. U.S. futures rose,
indicating a less volatile day on Wall Street.
The drop in the S&P 500 reflected a rapid shift in sentiment just a day after a 1.5 percent gain, which had been
driven by the White House decision to narrow the scope of the next round of tariffs on China to spare American
consumers during the holiday shopping season.
But there is increasing evidence that the fight between the two largest economies over trade, technology and
economic dominance has already taken a significant toll on the world economy.
Earlier Wednesday, the German government reported that the country's economy shrank in the quarter that ended
in June. The German economy, the eurozone's largest, has been particularly vulnerable to the trade war between
the United States and China because of Germany's dependence on manufacturing and exports. A second
consecutive quarter of decline would mean Germany was in a recession.
[Read more about Germany's economy.]
In China, a variety of macroeconomic indicators published overnight showed that its economy continues to lose
steam as the trade war drags on. Chinese industrial production slowed more than expected, falling to 4.8 percent
in July, the lowest level since 2002. Investment growth and retail sales also slowed.
The economic updates added to the increasingly ugly conditions in the global industrial economy. Closely watched
surveys of activity among industrial purchasing managers now suggest that manufacturing economies in China,
Japan, Germany and Britain -- the second-, third-, fourth- and fifth-largest economies in the world -- are all
contracting.
And prices for important industrial raw materials such as aluminum, copper and steel have fallen, confirming deep
weakness in the industrial sector. Major industrial firms around the world have reported softening demand.
In recent weeks, signs of the global industrial slowdown have also arrived in corporate earnings reports in the
United States. Second-quarter profits for companies in the S&P 500 are set to contract 0.7 percent from a year
earlier, according to the data provider FactSet. If that figure holds -- and more than 90 percent of the companies in
the index have reported -- it will mark the second straight quarter that earnings have declined.
The industrial sector of the S&P fared poorly, with earnings falling 10 percent from last year. The slide in profits
was also most pronounced among those companies with the greatest exposure to the global economy and trade.
FULL TEXT
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 3
Investors were intensely attuned Wednesday to downbeat economic signals from the bond market. Yields on long-
term United States Treasury securities continue to plumb lows not seen in recent years. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.58 percent, a level it last reached in late 2016. The yield on the 30-year
bond fell to 2.03 percent, the lowest level on record.
[Read more about the intensifying recession warning in the bond market.]
Bond yields are typically determined by investors' expectations for economic growth and inflation, making their
recent precipitous drop worrisome in themselves. But the drop in long-term yields also briefly pushed the yield on
the 10-year note below that of the two-year Treasury note, an unusual situation known as an inversion of the yield
curve. Such inversions are considered one of the most reliable leading indicators of recession in the United States,
having preceded every economic decline in the past 60 years.
That phenomenon, when yields on long-term bonds fall below those on short-term bonds, had already occurred
with some Treasury securities this year. But the inversion between two-year and 10-year notes, which last occurred
in 2007 as the economy began to sputter into a severe recession, seemed to worry investors anew.
[The bond market is sending a clear signal that investors are pessimistic about the economy's prospects.]
Signs of economic weakness hit commodities markets as well. Prices for copper, often tightly tied to the outlook
for Chinese economic growth, fell more than 1 percent in New York trading. Futures prices for American crude oil
fell more than 3 percent.
The tumble in crude oil prices weighed heavily on share prices of American energy companies, pushing the energy
sector down more than 4 percent. Exxon Mobil, Chevron and ConocoPhillips all fell more than 3.5 percent.
Stocks of large tech firms also suffered. Amazon dropped more than 3 percent and Apple and Microsoft more than
2.5 percent.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Credit: By MATT PHILLIPS; Stephen Grocer contributed reporting.
Chart
The S&P 500 Index: Position of the S&P 500 index at 1-minute intervals on Wednesday. (Source: Refinitiv)
DETAILS
Subject:	Recessions; Economic growth; Yield; Profits
Location:	New York United States--US Germany United Kingdom--UK China Hong Kong Asia Japan Europe
Company / organization:	Name: ConocoPhillips Co; NAICS: 211120; Name: Exxon Mobil Corp; NAICS: 211120, 447110; Name: Microsoft Corp; NAICS: 334614, 511210; Name: Macys Inc; NAICS: 445110,452210
URL:	https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/14/business/stock-market-today-bond- market.html
Publication title:	New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
Pages:	B.2
Publication year:	2019
Publication date:	Aug	15, 2019
ProQuest
Qye
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 3
Section:	B
Publisher:	New York Times Company
Place of publication:	New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:	United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:	General Interest Periodicals-United States
ISSN:	03624331
Source type:	Newspapers
Language of publication:	English
Document type:	News
ProQuest document ID:	2273070854
Document URL:	htt ps://search. proquest. com/docview/2273070854?accountid=l 4026
Copyright:	Copyright New York Times Company Aug 15, 2019
Last updated:	2019-08-16
Database:	Global Newsstream
LINKS Check SFX for Availability	
Database copyright © 2019 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved
Terms and Conditions Contact ProQuest
ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY SEARCH.PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 3