*
3/3/2020
Fed Makes Emergency Rate Cut as Markets Tremble Over Coronavirus - The New York Times
“We’re not looking at that at all,” Mr. Trump said. “But we’re looking at other countries and we’re being
very stringent,” he told reporters before boarding his Marine One helicopter to fly to the National Institutes
of Health for a visit.
Vice President Mike Pence said the C.D.C. would lift all restrictions on testing for the coronavirus and
would release new guidelines to fast-track testing for people who fear they have it, even if they are
displaying only mild symptoms. But Mr. Pence said the federal government did not intend to dictate school
or office closings, saying that “these decisions are best made at the state and local level.”
The World Bank, in an attempt to help countries deal with the health and economic effects of the outbreak,
said it would make $12 billion worth of financing available. David Malpass, the World Bank president, said
the money would be used to strengthen health systems, improve access to health services and enhance
disease surveillance, particularly in poorer countries.
Investors still expect the Fed to do more, and are anticipating another quarter-point cut at the central
bank’s meeting on March 18, potentially followed by another move in April. But the central bank is running
low on room to cut rates to avert a significant downturn if things worsen, which could be fueling market
jitters. Going into the last recession, from 2007 to 2009, the Fed cut rates from above 5 percent. Now it will
have just four quarter-point moves left at its disposal.
“Maybe there’s a stronger sense that we’re closer to being out of ammo. This is a real shock, and what is a
rate cut going to do?” said Julia Coronado, a founder of the research firm MacroPolicy Perspectives. “We
don’t know where it is, who has it, or how far it is going to spread.”
Other economists speculated that markets might have seen the action as a signal that economic
fundamentals are crumbling.
“This could be seen as a panic move,” Ryan Sweet at Moody’s Analytics said in a note, calling the Fed’s
decision to move in between scheduled meetings “risky.”
Emergency rate cuts are not without precedent. The Fed’s move on Tuesday echoed a 50-basis-point rate
cut it made in October 2008 as markets melted down after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, and another it
made earlier that year.
But this time, the central bank moved pre-emptively — trying to get ahead of an economic problem, rather
than waiting until damage was more fully realized. Unemployment in the United States remains at a 50-
year low, and most economic indicators do not yet reflect a virus fallout.
As recently as late January, the Fed signaled it expected to hold rates steady, with no plans to raise or
lower borrowing costs after ushering in three cuts in 2019. But officials at its last policy meeting were
already growing concerned about the virus’s potential effects, and in February, Mr. Powell warned that
China’s struggles with the virus could pose broader economic risks.
The Fed’s move came after central banks in Australia and Malaysia lowered borrowing costs early Tuesday
and after a joint statement from the leaders of the Group of 7 — which includes Britain, Canada, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States — pledged global coordination and cooperation in containing
fallout from the coronavirus.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/business/economy/fed-rate-cut.html
3/5
3/3/2020
Fed Makes Emergency Rate Cut as Markets Tremble Over Coronavirus - The New York Times
Mr. Trump, who has played down the economic effect of the virus, has been urging the Fed to cut rates to
better compete with other countries that have low or negative borrowing costs. The Fed’s half-point cut did
little to assuage his complaints.
“Finally. Do it more. Do it a little bit more,” the president said of the rate cut. “We’re paying more than
other countries; we should be paying less than everybody else. We have the dollar. We have the strength.
We have the greatest country on Earth.”
Asked if political pressure fueled the cut, Mr. Powell said that in making decisions, he and his colleagues
were “never going to consider any political considerations whatsoever.”
For now, the White House seems unconvinced other measures will be necessary. Treasury Secretary
Steven Mnuchin, speaking Tuesday before House lawmakers, insisted that the current volatility was not
comparable to the 2008 financial crisis and that the disruptions to travel and supply chains would abate.
However, he made clear that the Trump administration was preparing for the economy to take a hit this
year.
“I would say this is not different than any severe situation,” Mr. Mnuchin said. “This is going to have an
impact on the short term in the economy.”
The Treasury Department has created a task force to develop stimulus proposals, should additional efforts
be needed, he said, adding that he was looking at ways to help businesses if they needed support.
Lawmakers were also working on an emergency spending bill worth $7 billion to $8 billion. The package,
which has been quickly negotiated over the past few days, is expected to be significantly larger than what
the White House initially proposed eight days ago: $1.25 billion in new funds, paired with a transfer of
existing funds from other health programs.
Mr. Trump continued to suggest that Democrats pass a temporary payroll tax cut, but that seemed unlikely
to gain traction. Representative Richard E. Neal, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
told Mr. Mnuchin that any stimulus package should be centered around infrastructure investment rather
than additional tax cuts. Mr. Mnuchin said that infrastructure would be central to any such package.
Mr. Powell did not specify whether the economy needed Congress and Mr. Trump to provide some form of
fiscal stimulus like tax cuts or spending increases. He also would not say what economic data points might
cause the Fed — or other central banks — to take additional steps to protect the economy.
“Central banks are doing what makes sense in their particular institutional contexts,” he said. “But we’re
all talking to each other on an ongoing basis.”
Charles L. Evans, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said on Tuesday night that the
onus was on federal authorities, not the Fed.
“You’ve got to recognize that the key response to the virus has to come from the federal authorities, and
the health community, to make sure that we all stay safe,” he said, adding that he expected the economy to
bounce back after a short-term pullback in demand. “This is the type of event that you would expect to be
short-lived.”
Katie Rogers and Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/business/economy/fed-rate-cut.html
4/5
3/3/2020
Fed Makes Emergency Rate Cut as Markets Tremble Over Coronavirus - The New York Times
The Coronavirus Outbreak
Answers to your most common questions:
Updated March 2, 2020
•	What is a coronavirus?
It is a novel virus named for the crownlike spikes that protrude from its surface.
The coronavirus can infect both animals and people and can cause a range of
respiratory illnesses from the common cold to lung lesions and pneumonia.
•	How contagious is the virus?
It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes,
hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can travel through the air,
enveloped in tiny respiratory droplets that are produced when a sick person
breathes, talks, coughs or sneezes.
READ MORE \/
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/business/economy/fed-rate-cut.html
5/5