3/3/2020
Stocks Fall Sharply Despite Surprise Fed Rate Cut - WSJ
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit
https://www.djreprints.com.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/global-stocks-gain-on-stimulus-hopes-11583206230
U.S. MARKETS
Stocks Fall Sharply Despite Surprise Fed
Rate Cut
Dow closes nearly 800 points lower; Treasury yields drop again despite Federal Reserve move
ByAkane Otani
Updated March 3,2020 536 pm ET
U.S. stocks and government bond yields slid Tuesday after the Federal Reserve’s interest-rate
cut failed to assuage money managers fearful of the economic fallout from the coronavirus
epidemic.
The Fed’s move sparked a frenzy of trading. Stocks initially shot higher, propelling the Dow
Jones Industrial Average up more than 350 points. But within 15 minutes, stocks’ initial gains
gave way to jerky up-and-down trading action—with the blue-chip average and Treasury yields
tumbling after Fed Chair Jerome Powell acknowledged the limits of the central bank’s actions
in a press conference.
“We do recognize the rate cut won’t reduce the rate of infection,” Mr. Powell said., though he
added that he believed the move would “provide a meaningful boost to the economy.”
The Dow fell 785.91 points, or 2.9%, to 25917.41, swinging as much as 1378 points from its high to
its low point. The S&P 500 lost 86.86 points, or 2.8%, to 3003.37 and the Nasdaq Composite was
down 268.07 points, or 3%, to 8684.09.
As investors fled riskier assets, they turned to the relative safety of Treasurys: The yield on the
10-year U.S. Treasury note, a benchmark for everything from mortgage rates to student loans,
briefly slid below 1% to a record low.
The market’s moves Tuesday showed the extent to which investors have become worried that
central bank action alone won’t be enough to prevent a dropoff in consumer spending and
business investment.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/global-stocks-gain-on-stimulus-hopes-11583206230
1/4
3/3/2020
Stocks Fall Sharply Despite Surprise Fed Rate Cut - WSJ
Many money managers had been looking for the Fed to do exactly as it did Tuesday. They
argued that the worsening epidemic justified the Fed taking action before its scheduled policy
meeting—something that hadn't been done since the financial crisis in 2008.
At the same time, investors noted that the rate cut won't provide any more clarity on the
economic toll the coronavirus is likely to take on the U.S. At best, the Fed's move will help
deliver some reassurance to traders while officials figure out a more specific fiscal response to
the coronavirus. And unlike during the financial crisis, when extraordinary central bank actions
helped prevent a complete collapse of the financial system, the Fed is now grappling with a
different threat: a disease whose ultimate impact is still unknown.
“Fiscal authorities need to be the one that lead the way," said Joseph Brusuelas, chief
economist at RSM US LLP, which has lowered its forecast for U.S. gross domestic product
growth to 1% for the first quarter. “Monetary policy is not well positioned to address supply
shocks."
Stocks Fall Sharply Despite Fed Rate Cut
SUBSCRIBE
00=00/0131	^))
In the meantime, investors are bracing for the likelihood of a rise in coronavirus cases in the
U.S.
“We're still telling our clients to expect volatility. Right now there are too many unknowns
about the impact," said Solita Marcelli, deputy chief investment officer for the Americas at UBS
Global Wealth Management.
Others are wondering if the Fed's action is a signal that they should be more worried about the
outlook for the global economy and markets. Mr. Powell said Tuesday that he believed the U.S.
economy was still on strong footing.
But some investors were left with doubt.
“What are they seeing that we aren't?" said Kevin Preloger, portfolio manager at Perkins
Investment Management.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/global-stocks-gain-on-stimulus-hopes-11583206230
2/4
3/3/2020
Stocks Fall Sharply Despite Surprise Fed Rate Cut - WSJ
Reflecting growing doubts about the economy, stocks tied to travel and consumer spending fell
Tuesday, with MGM Resorts International down $1.75, or 7%, to $23.30, Norwegian Cruise Line
Holdings falling $1.97, or 5.5%, to $33.62 and United Airlines Holdings off $2.97, or 4.8%, to
$58.29.
For many, the 10-year Treasury yield breaching 1% and falling to another record low marked a
turning point. Just a few months ago, traders had widely expected the Fed wouldn’t cut rates
until the second half of the year, if they did at all. Few had thought a sub-1% yield on the 10-year
note was coming.
But the speed with which basic expectations about the trajectory of the global economy have
been upended has put many traders on edge.
“Anything’s possible,” said Thomas di Galoma, managing director of rates trading at Seaport
Global Securities. Mr. di Galoma said he now believes the Fed could lower rates by another 50
basis points by the time summer starts.
The swings rippling across markets Tuesday underscored to traders how tenuous stocks'
recent attempt to recoup their losses has been. Even before the stock market opened in New
York Tuesday, futures had been subject to big moves up and down—extending a recent streak of
volatile moves outside of regular hours. And reports had shown liquidity in both Treasurys and
S&P 500 futures dropping significantly last week.
The Fed isn’t the only institution to indicate a willingness to step in to help arrest a potential
slowdown due to the coronavirus.
RELATED
•	Fed Cuts Rates by Half Point to Combat Virus Fear
•	Benchmark Yield Hits New Record Low
•	Heard on the Street: Surprise Cuts Are No Cure
•	Live Updates: Coronavirus and Business
Earlier, finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven countries said they were
ready to use “all appropriate policy tools” to guard against economic risks from the
coronavirus.
But some investors said they were left disappointed by the G-7 statement, which didn’t offer a
specific and detailed coordinated policy response.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/global-stocks-gain-on-stimulus-hopes-11583206230
3/4
3/3/2020
Stocks Fall Sharply Despite Surprise Fed Rate Cut - WSJ
“Cutting interest rates isn’t going to make someone take a flight to Italy if they’re too scared to
do it,” said Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell.
Traders work on the floor of the New YorkStock Exchange earlier today.
PHOTO: JUSTIN LANE/EPA/SHUTTERSTOCK
MORE ON THE CORONAVIRUS'S IMPACT ON MARKETS AND BUSINESSES
Retailers Confront Virus Uncertainty
Apple Bet Everything on China. Then Coronavirus Hit.
Energy Shares Suffer From Virus Fears
Live Updates: Coronavirus and Business
MARKETS IN YOUR INBOX
Get our Markets newsletter, a pre-markets primer packed with news, trends and ideas. Plus, up-
to-the-minute market data. Sign up.
—Sam Goldfarb, Avantika Chilkoti and Anna Isaac contributed to this article
Write to Akane Otani at akane.otani@wsj.com
Copyright ©2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit
https://www.djreprints.com.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/global-stocks-gain-on-stimulus-hopes-11583206230
4/4